[Type text] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 8, 2025 
 
 
BY ECF 
 
Honorable Richard M. Berman 
United States District Judge 
Southern District of New York 
500 Pearl Street 
New York, New York 10007 
 
Honorable Paul A. Engelmayer 
United States District Court 
Southern District of New York 
40 Foley Square 
New York, NY 10007 
 
Re: United States v. Jeffrey Epstein, 
19 Cr. 490 (RMB) 
 
United States v. Ghislaine Maxwell, 
20 Cr. 330 (PAE) 
 
Dear Judges Berman and Engelmayer: 
The Government respectfully submits this letter in response to Your Honors’  respective 
Orders, the November 26, 2025, Order in United States v. Jeffrey Epstein, 19 Cr. 490 (RMB), Dkt. 
87, and the November 24, 2025 Order  in United States v. Ghislaine Maxwell , 20 Cr. 330 (PAE), 
Dkt. 811.  The Government submits th is response to the Orders  jointly as it believes there is 
substantial overlap in the issues raised in the respective Orders . As a threshold matter , the 
Department continues to view victim privacy as paramount in these cases, including in connection 
with its efforts to comply with the Act, and the Department recognizes and appreciates the Courts’ 
focus on victim privacy.
1  Several of the victims who have made submissions in response to the 
 
1 As noted in the Government’s submission to Judge Berman, the claims raised by Mr. Edwards 
in his letter submitted to each of Your Honors regarding the Department’s efforts to protect victim 
privacy are incorrect.  See United States v. Jeffrey Epstein, 19 Cr. 490 (RMB), Dkt. 88. A copy of 
the Department’s submission clarifying this point to Judge Berman is attached as Exhibit A. 
 
 
 
The Jacob K. Javits Federal Building 
26 Federal Plaza, 37th Floor 
New York, New York 10278 
 
U.S. Department of Justice 
 
United States Attorney 
Southern District of New York 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 819     Filed 12/08/25     Page 1 of 4Hon. Richard M. Berman and Hon. Paul A. Engelmayer 
December 8, 2025 
Page 2 of 4 
 
 
 
Courts’ Orders object through counsel  to release of grand jury materials .  These  objections 
principally are based on  the protection of victim- identifying information.  The  Act provides for 
the protection of victim -identifying information and, as discussed in more detail below, the 
Department is committed to working with the victims and their counsel, as well as the Courts, to  
establish, monitor, and modify as may be necessary or appropriate policies and procedures for the 
redaction of victim-identifying information.  In view of that, the Government respectfully submits 
that its motion should be granted with respect to both the grand jury materials and the modifications 
to the protective orders requested consistent with the Act and the Attorney General’s stated 
intention to withhold those categories of information authorized by Congress , including victim -
identifying information.
2 
To address the requirements of the Act and the  important privacy concerns that could be 
jeopardized if victim-identifying information is made public, the Department is working diligently 
to collect, review, and redact victim-identifying information from the materials the Act requires to 
be produced, subject to  judicial process.  The materials  collected to date involve  substantial 
amounts of information related to victims.  As previously noted to the Court, the Departm ent has 
proactively engaged with victims’ known counsel and are continuing to do so in connection with 
establishing the Department’s policies and procedures for redacting victim -identifying 
information.  In particular, the Department notes the following: 
• Process of Conferring with Victim s and Victim  Counsel:  The Department has 
(i) conferred with all victim counsel who have submitted letters to the Court 
concerning redactions; (ii) requested that counsel who submitted letters to the Court 
provide names of other known victim counsel, with whom the Department has also 
conferred regarding redactions; and (iii) reached out to counsel in relation to certain 
relevant victim settlement funds in an  effort to ensure that unrepresented victims 
are aware of the option to submit their names for redaction.
3  Any victims seeking 
redaction are able to reach the Department  directly (via 
USANYS.EpsteinMaxwellVictims@usdoj.gov).  Through this process, the 
Department is compiling a list of names for redaction.4   
 
2 The Department further notes that the Estate of Jeffrey Epstein has no objection to the release of 
the requested materials provided that victim- identifying information is appropriately handled.  
Counsel for Defendant Ghislaine Maxwell maintains her objection to the release of such materials, 
on grounds with which the Department disagrees as a matter of law. 
3 Through this process, the Department has been contacted by several unrepresented victims.  The 
Department will redact those victims’ names and is also conferring with several victims to address 
any additional questions or concerns. 
4 To date, the Department  proactively has conferred with counsel from six firms representing 
victims and related witnesses, and who have identified at the Department’s request hundreds of 
individuals who are potential victims of state or federal offenses or other claims of sexual 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 819     Filed 12/08/25     Page 2 of 4Hon. Richard M. Berman and Hon. Paul A. Engelmayer 
December 8, 2025 
Page 3 of 4 
 
 
 
• Scope of Redactions:  As noted in our prior letter s, the Department will endeavor 
to redact victim-identifying information —this includes, at a minimum, victims 
identified through the Department ’s prior prosecutions of Epstein and Maxwell , 
individuals who have been identified by counsel as known or suspected victims, 
and any victims who contact the Department  through the above-described process 
requesting redaction.  Going forward, the Department will also redact victim names 
even if the victim has otherwise been identified publicly.  This approach is 
specifically responsive to concerns recently raised by victim counsel.  For example, 
victim counsel expressed concern about one instance in which victim -identifying 
information was released by Congress (See United States v. Jeffrey Epstein, 19 Cr. 
490 (RMB), Dkt . 87) and sought to attribute culpability to the Department .  The 
Department now has confirmed that the document flagged by counsel is a publicly 
filed court exhibit, but nonetheless contained information for which the victims 
now request redaction, and the Department will honor that request for future 
redactions.           
• Review and Redaction Process:  The Department is conducting a centralized review 
of materials that may require publication under the Act using a document review 
platform that permits for word searches and application of redactions.  Through the 
document review platform, the Department will use the list of victim names 
compiled through the above -described process to apply reda ctions and to check 
materials before they are released publicly. 
• Civil Proceedings: Counsel for certain of the victims has indicated a concern that 
the Government’s request for a modification of relevant protective orders could 
extend to civil proceedings.  To clarify, in the instant motion, the Government seeks 
only modification of protective orders to which it is or has been a party in these 
criminal proceedings.  The Department is separately endeavoring to segregate any 
non-public materials it obtained from civil litigation proceedings to determine to 
what extent, if any, the Act requires publication of such materials and, if so, whether 
any protective orders in those matters require additional redactions. 
• Consistent Policies and Procedures : The Department is assessing the suite of 
potentially responsive materials under the Act  and recognizes that the scope of 
those materials is broad ( in both type and time frame)  and spans multiple 
investigations and proceedings, including the proceedings  before Your Honors.  
The Department is endeavoring to follow consistent policies and procedures for 
redacting victim-identifying information across all productions under the Act. 
 
exploitation or misconduct.  Out of a respect for privacy and security, the Department is treating 
all such identified individuals as victims for purposes of redaction. 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 819     Filed 12/08/25     Page 3 of 4Hon. Richard M. Berman and Hon. Paul A. Engelmayer 
December 8, 2025 
Page 4 of 4 
 
 
 
These steps reflect the Department ’s recognition of the potential adverse impact that 
inadvertent disclosure of victim- identifying information could have on the victims and their 
families, and that it would be impracticable to remedy those effects.   
In summary, the Department assures the Court that, while no process can entirely eliminate 
the risk of inadvertent disclosure 5, in connection with its motions and its efforts to comply with 
the Act more generally, the Department is committed to protecting the privacy interests of victims, 
will continue to consult with victims and their counsel, and will endeavor to follow consistent  
policies and procedures across all productions under the Act.   
The Government remains available, as always, to answer any questions the Court may 
have. 
Respectfully yours, 
 
PAMELA J. BONDI 
United States Attorney General 
 
TODD BLANCHE 
Deputy United States Attorney General  
United States Department of Justice 
 
 
/s/ Jay Clayton     
JAY CLAYTON 
United States Attorney 
Southern District of New York 
 
5  For example, while it is not possible —despite the most well- intentioned efforts —for any 
redaction process to eliminate entirely the risk that a third party could piece together information 
from various materials that, in isolation, would not provide identification in order to identify (even 
if speculatively) a victim.  The Department intends to mitigate  that risk to the greatest extent 
practicable by redacting names and other identifiers as requested by the victims with this “mosaic” 
risk in mind.  In this vein, counsel for certain relatives of victims have contacted the Department 
to request that information be redacted in order to protect not only the relative’s  identity but also 
that of the victim (and vice versa). 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 819     Filed 12/08/25     Page 4 of 4