[Type text] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
January 15, 2026 
 
 
BY ECF 
 
Honorable Richard M. Berman 
United States District Judge 
Southern District of New York 
500 Pearl Street 
New York, New York 10007 
 
Honorable Paul A. Engelmayer 
United States District Court 
Southern District of New York 
40 Foley Square 
New York, NY 10007 
 
Re: United States v. Jeffrey Epstein, 
19 Cr. 490 (RMB) 
 
United States v. Ghislaine Maxwell, 
20 Cr. 330 (PAE) 
 
Dear Judges Berman and Engelmayer: 
The Department respectfully submits this letter as an update to its previous submissions to 
the Court regarding the review and redaction of certain of the materials required to be published 
pursuant to the directives of H.R. 4405, the Epstein Files Transparency Act (the “Act”).
1  As noted 
in the Department’s January 5 letter, while not all  the materials under review are covered by the 
Courts’ Orders, the Department nevertheless continues to implement procedures across its review 
to ensure that victim -identifying information is protected  consistent with the Courts’ Orders  and 
to the maximum extent practicable.   
The Department has made substantial progress and remains focused on releasing materials 
under the Act promptly while protecting victim privacy.  Compliance with the Act is a substantial 
undertaking, principally because, for a substantial number of documents, careful, manual review 
 
1 In particular, the Department references United States v. Epstein, 19 Cr. 490 (RMB) (S.D.N.Y.) 
Dkts. 87, 88, 91; and United States v. Maxwell, 20 Cr. 330 (PAE) (S.D.N.Y.) Dkts. 819, 823, 826. 
 
 
 
The Jacob K. Javits Federal Building 
26 Federal Plaza, 37th Floor 
New York, New York 10278 
 
U.S. Department of Justice 
 
United States Attorney 
Southern District of New York 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 839     Filed 01/15/26     Page 1 of 4Hons. Richard M. Berman and Paul A. Engelmayer, U.S.D.J. 
January 15, 2026 
Page 2 of 4 
 
 
 
is necessary to ensure that victim-identifying information is redacted before materials are released.  
As the Department has continued with its resource -intensive efforts, it has  evaluated its efforts 
and, as appropriate, supplemented and modified its processes to ensure that its review has the 
appropriate rigor, care, and integrity.  In that vein, set forth below are some of the additional steps 
that the Department has taken since its January 5 update to the Court: 
Victim Engagement 
The Department continues to work with counsel for victims, and indeed victims 
themselves, to identify and refine the Department’s review procedures and to identify and redact 
victim-identifying information.  This dialogue remains ongoing, and the Department expects that 
it will remain ongoing  as materials are published .  T he D epartment remains committed to 
protecting the privacy of victims and other personal identifying information (“PII”), the production 
of which is not called for under the Act.  Notably, t he approach to redactions has been informed 
by the results of the  review itself.  For example, a s materials have been reviewed, names that 
should and should not be redacted have become clearer as a result  of various factors, including 
status determinations previously made and the input of victim counsel.  In this regard, the 
Government frequently engages with counsel directly to discuss these issues as it makes 
determinations about what to redact under the Act.   
The Department has also continued to confer with victims and counsel regarding the 
treatment of materials that have previously been publicly released and contain victim identifying 
information.  Specifically, as the Department noted in its prior letter that victims had reached out 
because they believed that materials posted in the DOJ Epstein Library 
(https://www.justice.gov/epstein
) should be redacted even if those materials were otherwise 
available in unredacted form on public court dockets (other than the matters before this Court).  
Following a process of conferring with victims and victim counsel about this issue, the Department 
has confirmed that, to the extent any victim requests redaction of personally identifying 
information of a document in the DOJ Epstein Library, the Department will redact that victim 
identifying information even if the document is  (or was) otherwise available on a public court 
docket.  Any additional requests for redaction s of this type should be transmitted by victims  or 
their counsel to 
EFTA@usdoj.gov. 
Overview of Work in Progress 
To date, the Department has  employed over five hundred reviewers to review and redact 
millions of  pages of materials from the investigations into Epstein and his convicted co-
conspirator, Maxwell.2  The SDNY alone , in conjunction with the Department, has dedicated 
 
2 As noted in the Department’s January 5 letter, due to the amount of duplication in various files, 
these estimated numbers remain in flux.  In particular, the number of identified duplications and 
the number of potential duplications both are substantial.  As a result, the estimated n umber of 
pages continues to decrease as duplicates are identified and removed.  Also, the Department  
respectfully requests that the Court recognize that the numbers presented are only estimates.  In 
this vein, and in connection with the Department’s efforts to ensure that all documents required to 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 839     Filed 01/15/26     Page 2 of 4Hons. Richard M. Berman and Paul A. Engelmayer, U.S.D.J. 
January 15, 2026 
Page 3 of 4 
 
 
 
significant resources (including AUSAs as well as other SDNY personnel), which this week  has 
been supplemented by approximately 80 attorneys from the Department’s Criminal Division, who 
will coordinate and work with SDNY during the review of documents identified as likely to contain 
victim information.  As part of that review, the Department is identifying not only those materials 
the publication of which are required under the Act, but also those that carry independent privileges 
as well as the need to redact victim-identifying information, among other things.  Act, § 2(c).
3   
This substantial progress in the review since the last update to the Court is notable in several 
respects.  First, the materials reviewed and redacted to date include many of the most sensitive 
categories of information for victims, including tens of thousands of pages of victim 3500 material 
and related investigative files .  These materials have been reviewed by SDNY AUSAs.  Once 
quality control checks are complete, and prior to any release, the SDNY U.S. Attorney will certify 
the process for review of these documents to this Court as was done for the prior release.   
Second, the Department is coordinating resources for this review from various components 
and offices.  Leadership from these various components holds daily calls (sometimes twice daily) 
to address progress, coordination, deduplication, reviewer questions, victim issues, and technical 
issues.   
Third, the Department is overseeing the processing, deduplication, and review of 
voluminous documents using a centralized platform .  Due to the scope of this effort, platform 
operations require around-the-clock attention and technical assistance to resolve inevitable glitches 
due to the sheer volume of materials.  
Ultimately, as is clear from the above, the Department has made substantial progress in its 
review since its last update to the Court .  This is a time-intensive process due to  the voluminous 
materials, the idiosyncratic nature of many of the materials, and the need to protect victim-
identifying information. The Department will continue to apprise the Court of its progress in this 
regard.  Although the Act provides for the withholding of materials on a temporary basis to allow 
for review and redaction of personally identifiable information of victims , and the Court has 
ordered a particular process for certification of protective order materials before release,  the 
 
be produced by the Act are identified and incorporated into the processes previously described to 
the Court, the Department has identified circumstances where materials generated and held in one 
office were copied and sent to one or more other offices (resulting in multiple components of the 
Department possessing copies of identical materials).  This has led to duplication that has increased 
the aggregate number of potentially responsive documents and may result in the same document 
being produced more than once.  While the Department has undertaken extensive efforts to 
deduplicate such documents, it also has led the Department to undertake additional quality control 
efforts to ensure that, to the extent practicable, it is working with complete, original files, and that 
redactions are consistently applied across duplicates and near duplicates.   
3 Any materials withheld on this basis of course will be disclosed in a report to Congress.  Act § 3. 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 839     Filed 01/15/26     Page 3 of 4Hons. Richard M. Berman and Paul A. Engelmayer, U.S.D.J. 
January 15, 2026 
Page 4 of 4 
 
 
 
Department is working to complete this review as expeditiously as possible without compromising 
victims’ privacy so that its production can be complete.  See Act § 2(c)(1)(A) & (C). 
The Government remains available, as always, to answer any questions the Court may 
have. 
Respectfully yours, 
 
PAMELA J. BONDI 
United States Attorney General 
 
TODD BLANCHE 
Deputy United States Attorney General  
United States Department of Justice 
 
 
/s/ Jay Clayton     
JAY CLAYTON 
United States Attorney 
Southern District of New York 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 839     Filed 01/15/26     Page 4 of 4