[Type text] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
November 26, 2025 
 
 
BY ECF 
 
The Honorable Paul A. Engelmayer 
United States District Judge 
Southern District of New York 
40 Foley Square 
New York, New York 10007 
 
Re: United States v. Ghislaine Maxwell, 
20 Cr. 330 (PAE) 
 
Dear Judge Engelmayer: 
The Government respectfully submits this letter in response to the Court’s November 25, 
2025, Order.  Dkt. 812.  The Government responds to the Court’s questions below  to the best of 
its ability at this early juncture in its review  pursuant to the directives of H.R. 4405, the Epstein 
Files Transparency Act (the “Act”). 
As noted in the Government’s motion, Dkt. 810, t he Act was passed by Congress and 
signed by the President  on November 19, 2025.  Pursuant to the Act, Congress has directed the 
Attorney General to make publicly available enumerated categories of information.  Act 
§ 2(a).  Concomitantly, and relevant here, the Act further permitted the Attorney General to 
withhold or to redact certain categories of information, including records that “contain personally 
identifiable information of victims or victims’ personal and medical files and similar files the 
disclosure of which constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.”   Id. § 2(c)(1).
  
While the Act does not require withholding or redacting of victim information, the Department 
intends to redact or withhold victim information to the fullest extent permitted by the Act and any 
other applicable laws .1  Consistent with the Court’s Order, Dkt. 811, the Government notified 
known victims of the instant motion on November 24, 2025.  At a minimum, the Government will 
 
1 The Government has been contacted by counsel who represents multiple victims, and has reached 
out to counsel to confer about  concerns raised in counsel’s correspondence.  The Government 
intends to discuss with counsel  the issues raised in that letter  in advance of the Government’s 
December 10 filing with this Court, while simultaneously investigating counsel’s claims regarding 
the provenance and nature of documents provided to and ultimately released by Congress. 
 
 
 
The Jacob K. Javits Federal Building 
26 Federal Plaza, 37th Floor 
New York, New York 10278 
 
U.S. Department of Justice 
 
United States Attorney 
Southern District of New York 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 813     Filed 11/26/25     Page 1 of 4Hon. Paul A. Engelmayer, U.S.D.J. 
November 26, 2025 
Page 2 of 4 
 
 
 
confer with counsel for known victims concerning names and terms for withholding or redaction.2   
In response to the Court’s specific questions, the Government clarifies that it seeks 
modification of all applicable protective orders ( i.e., not just docket 36) in this case to permit the 
Government to make publicly available all categories of materials pursuant to the Act  that 
otherwise would be covered by a protective order.  In that vein, the Government respectfully 
submits that the Act requires the Attorney General to make publicly available not just Rule 16 
materials that fall under the Act’s enumerated categories, but also materials produced pursuant to 
Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 17(c)3 and 18 U.S.C. § 3500.  Any such publication of these 
materials, of course, would be subject to the limitations in Section 2(c)(1)(A) of the Act.  As a 
result, the Government expects to, at a minimum, redact victim statements to the Government or 
law enforcement that were produced to the defendant pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 3500. 
With respect to the Court’s instruction to identify in “sufficient detail . . . what the materials 
to be made publicly available consist of,” the Government notes that its review of the underlying 
Rule 16 materials in compliance with the Act is ongoing.  To address the Court’s question, and to 
provide additional information to the victims, the Government respectfully sets forth below 
categories of Rule 16 materials.  These categories are based principally on the Government’s initial 
review of discovery letters and logs.  To the extent this list is not entirely comprehensive because 
the Government’s review is ongoing, it is intended to provide a sufficient overview of the types of 
Rule 16 material at issue to inform the victims’ response to the Court’s Order. 
• Judicial process obtained during the course of the investigations (e.g., search warrants and 
related applications, pen register orders and related applications) 
• Financial records (e.g., bank records, credit checks and credit reports, credit card records, 
money transmitter records, brokerage or other investment account records) 
• Travel records ( e.g., commercial airline records, private airline passenger logs, online 
 
2 The Government will also confer with counsel concerning a process for identifying any currently 
unrepresented victims whose identities should be redacted.  T he Government intends to redact 
identifying information for anyone who identifies themself as a victim in connection with this 
process. 
3 Materials obtained by the Government pursuant to Rule 17(c) typically would be produced to the 
defense pursuant to Rule 16, and therefore subsumed in the Government’s Rule 16 productions  
and subject to the protective order at docket 36.  To the extent such materials were deemed outside 
the scope of Rule 16(a), or were materials produced by the defense to the Government  (to the 
extent they exist ), they would not necessarily be governed by the protective order at docket 36.  
The Government has not yet identified materials in the second category ( i.e., obtained by the 
Government and not produced to or produced by defense counsel), and notes that the protective 
order at docket 505 appears to be limited to a single Rule 17(c)(3) subpoena issued by the defense 
to the Epstein Victims’ Compensation Fund.  See Dkts. 487, 496, 505. The Government promptly 
will notify the Court if it identifies any such materials, but nevertheless requests modification of 
the protective order at docket 505. 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 813     Filed 11/26/25     Page 2 of 4Hon. Paul A. Engelmayer, U.S.D.J. 
November 26, 2025 
Page 3 of 4 
 
 
 
booking records, flight manifests) 
• Grand jury subpoena returns from Internet service providers ( e.g., Instagram, Microsoft, 
Google, other email providers) 
• Records obtained from various government agencies (e.g., New York State Department of 
State, Bureau of Prisons, U.S. Virgin Islands Division of Corporations, NYPD computer 
checks, Delaware Division of Corporation records, police reports from various law 
enforcement agencies, SORNA records, FAA records) 
• School records 
• Search warrant returns (e.g., email, cloud and other ISP searches; photographs, scans, and 
copies of materials obtained during physical searches; electronic searches of computers, 
telephones, and other electronic devices) 
• Materials produced by law firms, including firms representing victims  
• Arrest reports, booking records, post-arrest statements, and photographs and/or copies of 
materials seized incident to arrest 
• Materials from related civil litigations ( e.g., recordings from depositions, transcripts of 
depositions) 
• Photographs and videos of relevant properties and locations ( e.g., Epstein properties, 
Maxwell residence, Interlochen) 
• Immigration records 
• Records related to online purchases from various online retailers 
• Materials obtained from the Palm Beach Police Department and the United States 
Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Florida, including reports, photographs, and 
videos 
• Forensic examination reports related to electronic extractions of various media 
• Copies of photographs and other materials voluntarily produced by third parties, including 
victims 
• Postal and courier records (e.g., FedEx) 
• Materials produced by the estate of Jeffrey Epstein 
• Driver’s licenses and DMV records 
• Reports and notes of interviews of third parties and victims , and certain communications 
relating to the same 
 
To the extent the aforementioned Rule 16 and Section 3500 materials contain personal 
records of a victim that otherwise would result in an unwarranted invasion of the victim’s personal 
privacy—such as photographs,
4 bank records, phone records, driver’s licenses, birth certificates, 
or school records  of a victim—the Attorney General will withhold such files (or appropriately 
 
4 The Government notes that under the controlling protective order, certain Rule 16 materials were 
designated as “Highly Confidential,” which was defined to include “nude, partially- nude, or 
otherwise sexualized images, videos, or other depictions of indivi duals.”  Consistent with the 
above, and pursuant to pursuant to Section 2(c)(1)(A) of the Act, the Government will redact or 
otherwise withhold such materials. 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 813     Filed 11/26/25     Page 3 of 4Hon. Paul A. Engelmayer, U.S.D.J. 
November 26, 2025 
Page 4 of 4 
 
 
 
redact them) pursuant to Section 2(c)(1)(A) of the Act and any other applicable laws.  
In summary, the Government is in the process of identifying potentially responsive 
materials the publication of which is called for under the Act , categorizing them and processing 
them for review, and reaching out to known victims and counsel to confer regarding the process  
and the content of redactions to ensure protection of victim identities .  Going forward, the 
Government will continue this process, making such redactions as may be necessary or appropriate 
to protect the interests of the victims as it receives input from counsel for victims and any rulings 
from this Court. 
As always, the Government is available if the Court has any questions. 
 
Respectfully yours, 
 
PAMELA J. BONDI 
United States Attorney General 
 
TODD BLANCHE 
Deputy United States Attorney General  
United States Department of Justice 
 
 
/s/ Jay Clayton     
JAY CLAYTON 
United States Attorney 
Southern District of New York 
 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 813     Filed 11/26/25     Page 4 of 4