[Type text] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
January 5, 2026 
 
 
BY ECF 
 
The Honorable Paul A. Engelmayer  
United States District Judge  
Southern District of New York  
40 Foley Square  
New York, New York 10007 
 
Re: United States v. Ghislaine Maxwell, 
20 Cr. 330 (PAE) 
 
Dear Judge Engelmayer: 
The Government respectfully submits this letter as an update to the Court’s November 25, 
2025, Order ,  Dkt. 812, and the Government’s letter of December 19, 2025, describing the 
procedures the Government initially implemented to comply with the Court’s Order requiring the 
U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York  to certify that the SDNY had conducted a 
pre-publication, victim privacy-related review and redaction of certain of the materials required to 
be published pursuant to the directives of H.R. 4405, the Epstein Files Transparency Act (the 
“Act”). While not all of the materials under review are covered by the Court’s prior Orders, the 
Government writes to advise the Court as to how it intends to address its obligations under the 
Court’s prior Orders in the context of how it is handling the review and publication process more 
generally. 
Specifically, the Government writes to update the Court  on the procedures it intends to 
follow to comply with the Act, the Court’s Order, and related obligations and policy considerations 
as it works to complete the review and release of files under the Act.  To date, the process described 
in the Government’s December 19 letter has been used for the subset of materials released that fall 
within the scope of the Court’s Order.   Since our last letter, (1) the Department has continued its 
efforts to identify, process, and review materials from various components of the Department and 
(2) the SDNY and the Department have worked together (including with input from  various 
counsel for victims) to refine our review and redaction procedures.  The goal of all these efforts is 
to facilitate the release of materials  under the Act promptly and to continue to protect victim 
privacy to the maximum extent practicable as contemplated by the Act and  consistent with  
Department policy and the Court’s Order. 
Overview of Work in Progress and Documents Remaining to be Reviewed. To date, the 
Department has now posted to the DOJ Epstein Library webpage approximately 12,285 documents 
 
 
 
The Jacob K. Javits Federal Building 
26 Federal Plaza, 37th Floor 
New York, New York 10278 
 
U.S. Department of Justice 
 
United States Attorney 
Southern District of New York 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 826     Filed 01/05/26     Page 1 of 5Hon. Paul A. Engelmayer, U.S.D.J. 
January 5, 2026 
Page 2 of 5 
 
 
 
(comprising approximately 125,575 pages) in response to the Act , and there are more than  2 
million documents potentially responsive to the Act that are in various phases of review.1   
The key steps in this process include: (1) identifying documents potentially covered by the 
Act, which as this Court is aware, is a voluminous set of materials, given the broad provisions of 
the Act; (2) uploading those documents  to a data review platform;  (3) manually reviewing the 
documents for victim identifying information , information required to be redacted under the 
Privacy Act, and privileged information;  (4) making appropriate redactions ; (5) prior to posting 
the documents to the Epstein Library webpage , engaging in global quality control checks ; (6) 
engaging i n SDNY- specific quality control checks for victim information  consistent with the 
Court’s Order; (7) posting responsive materials; and (8) responding to requests from victims and 
other members of the public, including requests to remove or further redact posted materials that 
inadvertently were published publicly.   
This work has required and will continue to require substantial Department resources.  We 
noted in our prior letter the hundreds of attorneys dedicated to the review at the time of that letter.  
Currently, and anticipated for the next few weeks ahead, i n the range of over 400 lawyers across 
the Department will dedicate all or a substantial portion of their workday to the Department’s 
efforts to comply with the Act.  These efforts include over 125 lawyers in the Southern District of 
New York as well as dozens of lawyers from each of the U.S. Attorney’s Office in the Southern 
District of Florida, the Criminal Division of the Department, and the National Security Division 
of the Department.  In addition, more than 100 specially trained document analysts with experience 
handling sensitive victim materials are assisting from the Federal Bureau of Investigation.   Many 
of the attorneys dedicated to this review from the Department have experience in victim- privacy 
related matters, which is necessary given the nature of the materials and the types of documents 
that require careful redaction (e.g., FBI interview notes and internal Department memoranda).  
While the commitment of Department personnel to this effort has been substantial in 
breadth and impressive in effort, substantial work remains to be done. As noted above, more than 
2 million documents identified as potentially responsive to the Act remain in various phases of 
review and redaction.
2  This is a large volume of materials and t he types, sizes, and forms of the 
 
1 The term “document” refers to materials of various types and sizes, including without limitation, 
internal emails, internal memoranda, FBI interview notes, draft charging documents, Bureau of 
Prisons materials, third party subpoena returns, court filings, external communications, and various 
forms of media.  Some documents have multiple pages.  As a result, document counts and page 
counts are different and the time required to review documents can vary substantially.   
2 On December 24, 2025, the Department disclosed that it had identified approximately more than 
one million potentially responsive documents from FBI files that had not yet been incorporated in 
its review.  Based on broad initial reviews of those documents, the Department expects that a 
meaningful portion of the documents are copies of ( or largely duplicative of) documents that had 
already been collected by the Department for review but nonetheless still need to undergo a process 
of processing and deduplication.  The Department’s identification and collection efforts span 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 826     Filed 01/05/26     Page 2 of 5Hon. Paul A. Engelmayer, U.S.D.J. 
January 5, 2026 
Page 3 of 5 
 
 
 
documents that remain to be reviewed  vary widely.  As a result, and in light of its experience to 
date in order to facilitate the prompt release of materials under the Act while continuing to protect 
victim privacy to the maximum extent practicable, it is appropriate for the Department to modify 
its procedures for their review  based on various factors including, without limitation, document 
type and likelihood that the document contains victim identifying information or privileged 
information. A more detailed  discussion of these  document type- specific procedures appears 
below.  
Victim Engagement and Modifications to the Department’s Victim Privacy Efforts.  Since 
the passage of the Act, the Department has received dozens of  inquiries from victims, victim 
representatives, and other members of the public requesting that materials be redacted to protect 
victim privacy.  To date, the Department has compiled a list of hundreds of individuals for 
redaction.  This list includes  names of victims and other individuals (such as immediate family 
members) that should be redacted to provide as much protection of victim privacy  as is 
practicable.
3  
Based on these interactions and its experience with the Act to date more generally, the 
Department has modified its efforts to protect victim privacy.  R ecent modifications include, 
without limitation, (1) modifying the processes for responding to requests to remove victim 
identifying information ;
4  (2) running additional electronic quality control searches (where 
technology allows) to better ensure the protection of  victim identifying information ; (3) refining 
internal guidance to reviewers (including as we receive feedback from victim counsel); (4) 
proactively engaging with various offices within the Department to ensure that all potentially 
responsive materials have been identified ; and (5) improving the processes for identifying and 
handling duplicative materials, including duplicative materials located in separate records , that 
require consistent redaction to protect victim privacy. 
 
various federal agencies and U.S. Attorney’s Offices, many with separate record keeping systems, 
policies, and procedures.  The Department is continuing to proactively engage with these offices  
to ensure a comprehensive identification of responsive materials. 
3 As noted in our prior letters to the Court, victims include individuals identified as victims, or 
potential victims, through the Department’s prior prosecutions of Epstein and Maxwell as well as 
all individuals who have (directly or through counsel) been identified, including self-identified, to 
the Department as potential victims of state or federal offenses or other claims of sexual 
exploitation or misconduct by Epstein or Maxwell.  The Department also has endeavored to redact 
victim-identifying information beyond names to the extent practicable. 
4 Any victim seeking to have information redacted that has been posted to the website is able to 
submit that request to EFTA@usdoj.gov.  This email inbox is monitored by a team of Department 
attorneys who review all such requests.  Separately, the Southern District of New York continues 
to confer with certain counsel for victims and to provide updates as circumstances allow. 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 826     Filed 01/05/26     Page 3 of 5Hon. Paul A. Engelmayer, U.S.D.J. 
January 5, 2026 
Page 4 of 5 
 
 
 
The Department remains committed to providing as much protection to the privacy 
interests of victims and their relatives as is practicable.  Prior releases have included tens of 
thousands of manual redactions of victim -identifying information.  Even with these efforts and 
related quality control checks, unfortunately, information that victims believe should have been 
redacted has been posted. The Department has applied additional redactions at the request of 
victims, counsel, and others, and continues to engage with victim counsel about these matters in 
an effort to best comply with the Act and also afford maximum privacy protections to victims.  In 
particular, an issue that the Department is continuing to consider and confer with victim counsel 
about is how to handle documents that have been filed in public court proceedings (other than the 
case before this Court) that contain information that victims now seek to have redacted. 
 
Update – Modifications to the Department’s Review  and Redaction Procedures.  In an 
effort to publish responsive, non-duplicative documents as promptly as practicable under the Act, 
while maintaining its commitment to victim privacy and complying with the Court’s Order s, the 
Department intends to incorporate the following procedures as it completes its review of 
potentially responsive materials: 
 
• Undertaking manual and electronic efforts to deduplicate materials collected from 
various components of the Department. 
 
• Prioritizing the review of documents that are expected to be responsive and non-
duplicative for review and publication. 
 
• Classifying documents in broad types based on the Department’s assessment of key 
characteristics, including whether the documents would be expected to include 
sensitive victim-identifying information.   
 
• For the prioritized documents  that are expected to include sensitive victim -
identifying information , assigning Department lawyers, including in particular, 
lawyers with experience in handling victim information and sensitive matters.   
 
• Consistent with the Court’s Order, this review process includes SDNY lawyers, and 
in particular SDNY attorneys are assigned to the materials most likely to contain 
sensitive victim -identifying information (as identified through searches and 
segregating categories of sensitive material, such as victim 3500).  SDNY lawyers 
are also involved in quality control reviews for victim -related redactions of 
materials that, while not expected to contain victim names, were produced under 
the Maxwell Protective Orders (or are believed to be duplicative of materials 
produced under such Orders). 
 
The Department believes that these procedur es best serve the interests of victims, the 
purposes of the Act and the Court’s Orders, and the public interest generally.   
 
As always, the Government is available to respond to any questions from the Court. 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 826     Filed 01/05/26     Page 4 of 5Hon. Paul A. Engelmayer, U.S.D.J. 
January 5, 2026 
Page 5 of 5 
 
 
 
 
Respectfully yours, 
 
PAMELA J. BONDI 
United States Attorney General 
 
TODD BLANCHE 
Deputy United States Attorney General  
United States Department of Justice 
 
 
/s/ Jay Clayton     
JAY CLAYTON 
United States Attorney 
Southern District of New York 
 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 826     Filed 01/05/26     Page 5 of 5