UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT 
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK 
 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, 
 
-v-  
 
GHISLAINE MAXWELL, 
 
Defendant. 
 
 
 
20 Cr. 330 (PAE) 
 
OPINION & ORDER 
 
 
PAUL A. ENGELMAYER, District Judge:  
 This decision resolves a motion pursuant to the Epstein Files Transparency Act (the 
“Act”), H.R. 4405, signed into law on November 19, 2025.  The Department of Justice (“DOJ”) 
moves for an order that would enable it to publicly release two categories of records from this 
case that it contends are within the scope of the Act.   
First, DOJ asks the Court to rule that the Act covers the grand jury transcripts and 
exhibits in this case (the “grand jury materials”) and, as to these, overrides Federal Rule of 
Criminal Procedure 6(e).  That ruling would authorize DOJ to publicly release the grand jury 
materials pursuant to the Act.  Second, DOJ asks the Court to rule that the Act covers the 
extensive discovery the prosecution provided to counsel for defendant Ghislaine Maxwell in 
connection with her 2021 trial (the “discovery materials”) and to modify the protective order that 
governs such discovery.  That modification would permit DOJ to publicly release the discovery 
materials pursuant to the Act.  Consistent with a provision of the Act, DOJ has pledged—with 
respect to both categories of materials—to withhol d or redact segregable portions that contain 
personally identifiable and other victim-related information.  
For the following reasons, the Court grants DOJ’s motion.  In modifying the protective 
order, the Court, consistent with the Act, puts in place a mechanism to protect victims from the 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 820     Filed 12/09/25     Page 1 of 242 
 
inadvertent release of materials within the discovery in this case that would identify them or 
otherwise invade their privacy. 
I. Background 
 
A. Maxwell’s Indictment, Trial, Sentencing, and Appeal 
The history of this case spanning indictment through direct appeal is set out in the Court’s 
August 11, 2025 decision denying DOJ’s motion to release grand jury transcripts and exhibits.  
See United States v. Maxwell, 794 F. Supp. 3d 215, 216–19 (S.D.N.Y . 2025) (“GJ Decision”).  In 
brief: 
On June 29, 2020, a grand jury indicted Maxwell on charges arising from her facilitation 
of and participation in a scheme by the notorious pedophile Jeffrey Epstein to abuse multiple 
minor girls.  On March 29, 2021, a different grand jury returned a superseding indictment that 
added related charges.   
Maxwell’s jury trial commenced on November 29, 2021.  It entailed testimony from four 
women who described the sexual abuse they had suffered, as girls, at the hands of Epstein and 
Maxwell; testimony of individuals who had worked for Epstein and/or Maxwell; testimony of 
law enforcement officials; and corroborating physical and documentary evidence, including 
Epstein and Maxwell’s black address book, flight logs of Epstein’s private planes, and FedEx 
records.  Trial ended on December 29, 2021 with Maxwell’s conviction on five felony counts: 
conspiracy to entice minors to travel to engage in illegal sex acts; conspiracy to transport minors 
with intent to engage in illegal sexual activity; transportation of a minor with intent to engage in 
illegal sexual activity; participation in a sex-trafficking conspiracy; and the sex trafficking of a 
minor.  
On June 28, 2022, after resolving post-trial motions, the Honorable Alison J. Nathan, to 
whom this case was then assigned, sentenced Maxwell to a term of 240 months’ imprisonment.   
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 820     Filed 12/09/25     Page 2 of 243 
 
Maxwell appealed.  On September 17, 2024, the United States Court of Appeals for the 
Second Circuit affirmed Maxwell’s conviction.  United States v. Maxwell, 118 F.4th 256, 261 (2d 
Cir. 2024).  On November 25, 2024, the Second Circuit denied Maxwell’s petition for rehearing.  
United States v. Maxwell, No. 22-1426 (2d Cir. Nov. 25, 2024), Dkt. 120.  On October 6, 2025, 
the Supreme Court denied Maxwell’s petition for certiorari.  Maxwell v. United States, No. 24-
1073, 2025 WL 2823724 (U.S. Oct. 6, 2025). 
B. DOJ’s First Motion to Unseal Grand Jury Materials 
On July 18, 2025, DOJ moved to unseal the grand jury transcripts and exhibits in 
Maxwell’s case.  Citing the “extensive public interest” in Epstein’s and Maxwell’s crimes, it 
argued that unsealing these materials would serve the goal of “transparency to the American 
public,” because the materials were “critical pieces of an important moment in our nation’s 
history.”  GJ Decision, 794 F. Supp. 3d at 221, 225 (citation omitted).   
The case was then reassigned to this judge.  Between July 29 and August 8, 2025, the 
Court received submissions bearing on the motion.  These included the grand jury transcripts and 
exhibits themselves, which the Court reviewed in camera; a DOJ letter identifying the limited 
portions of the grand jury materials that were not already matters of public record; a brief from 
Maxwell opposing unsealing; and letters from representatives of victims and other witnesses.  Id. 
at 222. 
On August 11, 2025, the Court denied the motion to unseal.  The Court held that the 
narrow exceptions to Rule 6(e), which requires that grand jury proceedings generally remain 
secret, did not apply.  Id. at 222–25.  And although the “special circumstances” doctrine 
recognized in the Second Circuit gives a district court discretion in limited circumstances to 
authorize the disclosure of grand jury materials of historical or public significance, see In re 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 820     Filed 12/09/25     Page 3 of 244 
 
Petition of Craig, 131 F.3d 99, 101–02 (2d Cir. 1997) (“Craig”), that exception, the Court held, 
did not apply either, for two reasons.   
First, contrary to DOJ’s depiction, the grand jury materials would not reveal new 
information of any consequence.  GJ Decision, 794 F. Supp. 3d at 226 (DOJ’s “entire premise—
that the Maxwell grand jury materials would bring to light meaningful new information about 
Epstein’s and Maxwell’s crimes, or the Government’s investigation into them—is demonstrably 
false.”).  On the contrary, the grand juries had met briefly, each receiving evidence on a single 
day; they had not met to investigate, but solely to return an indictment; the only testimony they 
had heard was summary testimony from two law enforcement officials; and, with minor 
exceptions, the evidence before the grand juries was already a matter of public record, largely as 
a result of Maxwell’s 2021 trial.  Id. at 226–27.  The premise of DOJ’s invocation of the special 
circumstances doctrine—that the materials at issu e were of historical or public interest—was 
thus false.  Id. at 227–28 (noting that the only arguable public interest served by disclosure 
would be to “expose as disingenuous the Government’s public explanations for moving to 
unseal”).   
Second, even if the doctrine did apply, Craig’s multi-factor test weighed overwhelmingly 
against disclosure.  Among the factors opposing disclosure: the grand jury materials were 
quotidian, not significant; DOJ’s position in support of disclosure deserved limited weight, given 
its false premise and irregularities with respect to the motion; DOJ did not seek tailored 
disclosure but instead release of effectively the entire grand jury record; and the systemic interest 
in grand jury secrecy would be harmed by the casual release of records in the unexceptional 
circumstances here.  Id. at 229–34. 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 820     Filed 12/09/25     Page 4 of 245 
 
DOJ did not appeal.1      
II. DOJ’s Motion Based on the Epstein Files Transparency Act 
A. The Act 
On November 19, 2025, Congress nearly unanimously passed, and the President signed, 
the Epstein Files Transparency Act.
2   
The Act’s operative section—Section 2, enti tled “Release of Documents Relating to 
Jeffrey Epstein”—requires the Attorney General,  within 30 days of enactment and subject to 
enumerated exceptions, to “make publicly available in a searchable and downloadable format all 
unclassified records, documents, communications, and investigative materials in the possession 
of [DOJ], including the Federal Bureau of Investigation and United States Attorneys’ Offices, 
that relate to”: 
(1) Jeffrey Epstein including all investig ations, prosecutions, or custodial 
matters.  
(2) Ghislaine Maxwell.  
(3) Flight logs or travel records, including but not limited to manifests, itineraries, 
pilot records, and customs or immig ration documentation, for any aircraft, 
vessel, or vehicle owned, operated, or used by Jeffrey Epstein or any related 
entity.  
(4) Individuals, including government of ficials, named or  referenced in 
connection with Epstein’s criminal activities, civil settlements, immunity or 
plea agreements, or investigatory proceedings.  
(5) Entities (corporate, nonpr ofit, academic, or governmental) with known or 
alleged ties to Epstein’s trafficking or financial networks.  
(6) Any immunity deals, non-prosecution agr eements, plea bargains, or sealed 
settlements involving Epstein or his associates.  
 
1 DOJ made a parallel motion to unseal the grand jury transcripts and exhibits in Epstein’s case.  
On August 20, 2025, the Honorable Richard M. Berman denied that motion.  See United States v. 
Epstein, 795 F. Supp. 3d 499, 502–03 (S.D.N.Y . 2025). 
 
2 The Act passed the House by a vote of 427-1 and passed the Senate unanimously. 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 820     Filed 12/09/25     Page 5 of 246 
 
(7) Internal DOJ communications, includi ng emails, memos, [and] meeting 
notes, concerning decisions to charge, not  charge, investigate, or decline to 
investigate Epstein or his associates.  
(8) All communications, memoranda, directiv es, logs, or metadata concerning 
the destruction, deletion, alteration, misplacement, or concealment of 
documents, recordings, or el ectronic data related to Epstein, his associates, 
his detention and death, or any investigative files.  
(9) Documentation of Epstein’s detention or  death, including in cident reports, 
witness interviews, medical examiner files, autopsy repo rts, and written 
records detailing the circumstances and cause of death. 
Act § 2(a).  Subsection 2(b), entitled “Prohibited Grounds for Withholding,” provides:  
No record shall be withheld, delayed, or redacted on the basis of embarrassment, 
reputational harm, or political sensitivity, including to any government official, 
public figure, or foreign dignitary.   
   
Id. § 2(b)(1). 
Subsection 2(c), titled “Permitted Withholdings,” identifies five categories of records as 
to which the Attorney General “may withhold or redact the segregable portions.”  Id. § 2(c)(1).  
The only one directly relevant to this motion is the first category.  It covers records that “contain 
personally identifiable information of victims or victims’ personal and medical files and similar 
files the disclosure of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal 
privacy.”  Id. § 2(c)(1)(A).3  “All redactions must be accompanied by a written justification 
published in the Federal Register and submitted to Congress.”  Id. § 2(c)(2).   
Under Section 3, within 15 days of completing the public release of materials pursuant to 
the Act, the Attorney General must submit to the House and Senate Committees on the Judiciary 
a report listing: 
 
3 The other four categories as to which the Attorney General is empowered to withhold or redact 
records are those that (1) contain child sexual abuse materials; (2) would jeopardize active 
federal investigations or prosecutions, provided such withholding is narrowly tailored and 
temporary; (3) depict images of death, physical abuse, or injury of any person; or (4) contain 
properly classified information.  Act § 2(c)(1)(B)–(E).  
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 820     Filed 12/09/25     Page 6 of 247 
 
(1)  All categories of reco rds released and withheld. 
(2)  A summary of redactions  made, including legal basis. 
(3)  A list of all government  officials and politically exposed persons named or 
referenced in the released materials,  with no redactions permitted under 
subsection (b)(1). 
  Id. § 3(1)–(3). 
B. The Present Motion 
On November 24, 2025, DOJ moved for an expedited ruling authorizing it to (1) unseal 
the grand jury transcripts and exhibits in Maxwell’s case, and (2) modify the protective order in 
this case, to the extent that that order would otherwise prohibit DOJ from publicly disclosing 
materials as required by the Act.  Dkt. 810 (“Mot.”) at 1.  As to the latter, DOJ’s motion cited the 
protective order issued by Judge Nathan on July 30, 2020.  Id. at 3 (citing Dkt. 36).   
DOJ stated that it interprets the Act to reach, and to require DOJ to publish, the grand 
jury and discovery materials in this case, unless a statutory basis for withholding applies.  Id. 
at 2.  As to such withholdings, DOJ stated that it would “make appropriate redactions of victim-
related and other personal identifying information.”  Id. at 8.  DOJ did not indicate an intention 
to withhold or redact materials on any other statutory basis.
4  
C. Ensuing Orders and Submissions 
On November 24, 2025, upon receiving DOJ’s motion, the Court, mindful of the Act’s 
30-day disclosure deadline, set an expedited schedule for responses by affected persons.  
Dkt. 811.  The Court gave Maxwell until December 3, 2025 to respond.  It set the same deadline 
 
4 DOJ filed a parallel motion in Epstein’s case.  See United States v. Epstein, No. 19 Cr. 490 
(RMB) (S.D.N.Y . Nov. 24, 2025), Dkt. 85. 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 820     Filed 12/09/25     Page 7 of 248 
 
for responses by victims and/or their representatives, and directed DOJ immediately to notify the 
victims of its motion.  It gave DOJ until December 10, 2025 to file any response.  Id. at 2.5 
On November 25, 2025, the Court issued a second order, seeking clarifications from 
DOJ.  Dkt. 812.  The Court’s review of the docket had revealed that two protective orders had 
issued in Maxwell’s case.  The first, issued July 30, 2020, shortly after Maxwell’s arraignment, 
governed the discovery the prosecution would thereafter produce to the defense, pursuant to 
Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 16 and the prosecution’s other discovery obligations.  See 
Dkt. 36 (“Protective Order”).  The second, issued November 24, 2021, five days before trial, 
covered discovery produced to the defense and the Government pursuant to Federal Rule of 
Criminal Procedure 17(c), which governs trial subpoenas.  See Dkt. 505 (“Rule 17(c) Protective 
Order”).  To assure that the victims and Maxwell had fair notice of the materials covered by 
DOJ’s motion, the Court directed DOJ to file a letter (1) stating whether it sought modification 
of both protective orders or just one, and (2) enumerating the categories of materials covered by 
each protective order that it sought to make public.  Dkt. 812 at 2.  The Court directed DOJ to 
state whether these included—i n addition to materials produced pursuant to Rules 16 and 
17(c)—materials produced pursuant to the Jencks Act, 18 U.S.C. § 3500 (i.e., witness 
statements).  Id. 
On November 26, 2025, DOJ responded.  Dkt. 813.  It stated that its motion covered both 
protective orders and that the first subsumed the second; that the motion covered materials 
produced pursuant to the Jencks Act as well as Rules 16 and 17(c); and that DOJ intended to 
withhold victim information “to the fullest extent permitted by the Act.”  Id. at 1.   
 
5 The Court later moved DOJ’s response deadline two days earlier—to December 8, 2025—to 
align its briefing schedule with that in Epstein’s case.  Dkt. 814. 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 820     Filed 12/09/25     Page 8 of 249 
 
As to the categories of materials to be publicly released subject to such withholding, DOJ 
listed the following, based on its initial review: 
 Judicial process obtained during the course of the investigations (e.g., search 
warrants and related applications, pen register orders and related 
applications); 
 
 Financial records (e.g., bank records, credit checks and credit reports, credit 
card records, money transmitter record s, brokerage or other investment 
account records); 
 
 Travel records (e.g., commercial airline records, private airline passenger 
logs, online booking records, flight manifests); 
 
 Grand jury subpoena returns from Internet service providers (e.g., Instagram, 
Microsoft, Google, other email providers); 
 
 Records obtained from various  government agencies ( e.g., New York State 
Department of State, Bureau of Pris ons, U.S. Virgin Islands Division of 
Corporations, NYPD computer checks, Delaware Division of Corporation 
records, police reports from variou s law enforcement agencies, SORNA 
records, FAA records); 
 
 School records; 
 
 Search warrant returns ( e.g., email, cloud, and other ISP searches; 
photographs, scans, and copies of materials obtained during physical 
searches; electronic search es of computers, telephones, and other electronic 
devices); 
 
 Materials produced by law firms, including firms representing victims; 
 
 Arrest reports, booking records, post-arrest statements, and photographs 
and/or copies of materials seized incident to arrest; 
 
 Materials from related civil litigations ( e.g., recordings from depositions, 
transcripts of depositions); 
 
 Photographs and videos of rele vant properties and locations ( e.g., Epstein 
properties, Maxwell residence, Interlochen); 
 
 Immigration records
 ; 
 
 Records related to online purchases from various online retailers; 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 820     Filed 12/09/25     Page 9 of 2410 
 
 
 Materials obtained from the Palm Beach Police Department and the United 
States Attorney’s Office for the Sout hern District of Florida, including 
reports, photographs, and videos; 
 
 Forensic examination reports related to electronic extrac tions of various 
media; 
 
 Copies of photographs and other materials vol untarily produced by third 
parties, including victims; 
 
 Postal and courier records (e.g., FedEx); 
 
 Materials produced by the estate of Jeffrey Epstein; 
 
 Driver’s licenses and DMV records; and 
 
 Reports and notes of interviews of th ird parties and victims, and certain 
communications relating to the same. 
Id. at 2–3 (cleaned up). 
On December 3, 2025, Maxwell, through counsel, responded.  Dkt. 815.  Her one-page 
letter stated that she did not take a position on DOJ’s requests to unseal the grand jury materials 
and modify the Protective Order pursuant to the Act.  Id. at 1. 
On December 2, 2025, Annie Farmer, a victim who testified under her full name at 
Maxwell’s trial, filed a letter through counsel.  Dkt. 816 (“Farmer Letter”).  Ms. Farmer’s letter 
stated that she supports—subject to redactions for victims’ personal information—the unsealing 
and release of grand jury and discovery materials in this case, as well as of investigative 
materials held by DOJ outside the discovery in this case.  She expressed concern that DOJ might 
not fully comply with the Act, and disappointment that, to date, DOJ has not taken action against 
“other critical inner circle Epstein accomplices.”  Id. at 1–2.   
On December 5, 2025, the Court docketed three additional letters that victims and others 
had submitted to DOJ for transmittal to the Court.  Dkt. 818. 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 820     Filed 12/09/25     Page 10 of 2411 
 
In the first letter, dated November 25, 2025, counsel for a consortium of victims of 
Epstein and Maxwell faulted DOJ for having failed to redact victims’ names in documents DOJ 
provided to the House of Representatives Oversight Committee and which that Committee later 
published.  Id. at 4–10 (“Victim Consortium Letter”).  These victims asked the Court to assure 
that DOJ adequately redact victims’ personal information in any materials that the Court 
authorizes DOJ to release pursuant to the Act.  Id. at 10. 
In the second letter, dated December 3, 2025, counsel for a victim’s family member 
(“John Doe”)—who had been design ated to testify at Maxwell’s trial but ultimately did not do 
so—asked that all personally identifiable inform ation regarding the family member be redacted 
in any materials made public pursuant to the Act.  Id. at 11–12 (“John Doe Letter”).  Revelation 
of the family member’s name, the letter stated, would tend to identify the victim.  Id. 
In the third letter, dated December 3, 2025, Neil S. Binder, counsel for several non-party 
individuals, opposed DOJ’s request to release grand jury and discovery materials under the Act.  
Id. at 14–17 (“Binder Letter”).  The letter argued that the Act does not authorize the disclosure of 
either set of records.  The letter separately asked the Court, were it to grant DOJ’s motion to 
modify the Protective Order in this case, not to modify, sua sponte, a protective order governing 
discovery in a separate civil action against Maxwell in this District.  Id. (citing Giuffre v. 
Maxwell, No. 15 Civ. 7433 (LAP), 2023 WL 8715697 (S.D.N.Y. Dec. 18, 2023)). 
On December 8, 2025, DOJ filed a response.  Dkt. 819.  DOJ stated that the consortium 
of victims had unfairly accused it of releasing personally identifiable information about victims; 
that information, DOJ stated, had earlier been publicly released.  Id. at 1 n.1, 3; Dkt. 819-1 at 1.  
DOJ stated that it will nonetheless henceforth redact victim names even where earlier publicly 
identified.  Dkt. 819 at 3.  DOJ stated that it is committed to respecting victims’ privacy, is 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 820     Filed 12/09/25     Page 11 of 2412 
 
collecting victim identities, and has put in place a mechanism for victims or their counsel to 
contact DOJ.  Id. at 2–4 (“Any victims seeking redaction are able to reach the Department 
directly (via USANYS.EpsteinMaxwellVictims@usdoj.gov).”).  
III. Discussion 
DOJ’s motion raises two questions.   
First, does the Act reach the discovery materials covered by the Protective Order, and the 
grand jury materials in this case?  And, as to the grand jury materials, does the Act override Rule 
6(e)’s prohibition on disclosure?   
Second, given the Court’s below holding that the Act covers such records, how should 
the Protective Order be modified?  In particular, insofar as discovery in this case will be released 
subject to the withholding of victim-related information as permitted by the Act, what 
mechanism should the Protective Order include to assure that the privacy interests of victims are 
protected?   
A. Scope of the Act 
1. Application to the Discovery Materials 
The Protective Order in this case, issued by Judge Nathan on an application from the 
Government, covers all “documents and materials” produced by the Government to Maxwell’s  
counsel pursuant to Rule 16 and any other discovery obligations.  See Protective Order at 1 
(defining such materials as the “Discovery”).  DOJ has clarified that the Protective Order also 
covers discovery produced pursuant to the Jencks Act and Rule 17(c).  Dkt. 813 at 2 & n.3.
6  In 
other words, the Protective Order covers all discovery the prosecution made to the defense. 
 
6 For this reason, the Government explains, the Protective Order subsumes the material covered 
by the later Rule 17(c) Protective Order.  Dkt. 813 at 2 n.3.  This decision therefore solely refers 
to the Protective Order. 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 820     Filed 12/09/25     Page 12 of 2413 
 
The Protective Order mainly restricts the defense.  It prohibits Maxwell’s counsel from 
disseminating or copying the discovery materials, subject to limited exceptions (e.g., for defense 
experts).  Protective Order at 2–6.  But it also limits the Government’s dissemination of 
discovery.  In the provisions relevant to the present motion, the Protective Order prohibits the 
Government from “posting or causing to be posted any of the Discovery or information 
contained in the Discovery on the Internet, including any social media website or other publicly 
available medium,” and, except as required to discharge professional obligations in the case, 
“from publicly disclosing or disseminating the identity of any victims or witnesses referenced in 
the Discovery.”  Id. at 4–5.   
The Act unambiguously applies to the discovery in this case.  It governs “all unclassified 
records, documents, communications, and investigative materials in the possession of [DOJ], 
including the Federal Bureau of Investigation and United States Attorneys’ Offices” related to 
Maxwell, Epstein, and other enumerated subjects.  Act § 2(a) (emphasis added).  That broad 
formulation embraces the voluminous discovery subject to the Protective Order in this case.  
Such, by definition, was, and is, possessed by DOJ, and specifically by the United States 
Attorney’s Office in this District (the “USAO”).7 
The Court thus finds that modification of the Protective Order is necessary to enable DOJ 
to carry out its legal obligations under the Act.  Such relief is authorized by the Protective Order, 
which expressly provides for its modification by the Court.  See Protective Order at 11–12. 
 
7 The Court, of course, cannot foreclose the possibility that the discovery furnished by the 
Government to the defense in this case included extraneous items outside the scope of 
Section 2(a) of the Act.  The Act would not require the Government to publicly release such 
items. 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 820     Filed 12/09/25     Page 13 of 2414 
 
  2. Application to Grand Jury Materials 
  a. Scope of the Act 
The Act does not explicitly refer to grand jury materials.  The Court nonetheless holds—
again in agreement with DOJ—that the Act textually covers the grand jury materials in this case.  
That is for three reasons.   
First, the Act references Ghislaine Maxwell by name.  Act § 2(a)(2).  Indeed, in the 
provision of the Act describing materials required to be publicly disclosed, one subsection is 
devoted entirely to materials “that relate to . . . Ghislaine Maxwell.”  Id.; see Lamie v. U.S. Tr., 
540 U.S. 526, 534 (2004) (collecting cases holding that “when the statute’s language is plain, the 
sole function of the courts—at least where the di sposition required by the text is not absurd—is 
to enforce it according to its terms” (citation omitted)). 
Second, the Act covers “all unclassified records, documents, communications, and 
investigative materials in the possession of [DOJ], including . . . United States Attorneys’ 
Offices, that relate to . . . Maxwell,” as well as Epstein and other topics.  Id. § 2(a).  That 
language is strikingly broad.  It thus applies to the grand jury materials in this case, which, like 
the discovery subject to the Protective Order, are held by the USAO.  See United States v. 
McCue, 301 F.2d 452, 455 (2d Cir. 1962) (“very broad language” of a statute indicated that the 
statute’s mentions of specific examples were non-exhaustive).  
Third, the Act does not exempt grand jury materials from disclosure, in contrast to its 
exceptions permitting the withholding or redaction of five other categories of materials.  For 
instance, it specifically exempted properly classified information from public release.  Act 
§ 2(c)(1)(E).  Congress undeniably was aware—including from DOJ’s recent unsuccessful 
motion to unseal the grand jury records—that the prosecution of Maxwell entailed grand jury 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 820     Filed 12/09/25     Page 14 of 2415 
 
materials held by the USAO.8  Its decision not to exclude grand jury materials despite knowledge 
as to their existence, while expressly excluding other categories of materials (such as classified 
information), indicates that the Act covers grand jury materials.  See Ruiz-Almanzar v. Ridge, 
485 F.3d 193, 197 (2d Cir. 2007) (fact that Congress was “likely aware” of a category of 
individuals but chose not to exclude them explicitly from a statute’s coverage suggested the 
statute covered that category); Bd. of Trs. of Bakery Drivers Loc. 550 & Indus. Pension Fund v. 
Pension Benefit Guar. Corp., 136 F.4th 26, 31 (2d Cir. 2025) (that one statutory provision did 
not exclude certain items that were expressly excluded in other provisions supported that first 
provision covered those items). 
  b. Interplay with Rule 6(e) 
A separate issue arises from the interplay between the Act and Rule 6(e).  The two 
authorities squarely conflict: the Act, subject to permitted withholdings, mandates publication of 
grand jury records, but Rule 6(e)—as this Court recently held—forbi ds such disclosure. 
DOJ is correct that, as between the two, the Act controls.  As a general rule, “later 
statutes receive precedence over earlier statutes and specific statutes receive precedence over 
more general statutes.”  United States v. Mohammed, 27 F.3d 815, 820 (2d Cir. 1994).  Both 
canons apply here with force.  The Act is specific, focused on evidence about Epstein and 
Maxwell, where Rule 6(e) prescribes a general rule.  See, e.g., Busic v. United States, 446 
 
8 The Act’s limited legislative history contains statements reflecting representatives’ awareness of 
the existence of grand jury materials and their understanding that the Act could abrogate grand 
jury secrecy.  See, e.g., 171 Cong. Rec. H4729 (daily ed. Nov. 18, 2025) (statement of Rep. Issa) 
(urging amendment of the Act “so that it properly protects both the tradition of the grand jury 
and . . . innocent people that would otherwise be swept up”); id. at H4731 (statement of Rep. 
Johnson) (citing Judge Berman’s denial of DOJ’s request to release the Epstein grand jury 
materials, and expressing concern that the Act, if not amended, “potentially jeopardizes grand 
jury secrecy” in that it “raises a risk that the grand jury process will become politicized in the 
future”).  
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 820     Filed 12/09/25     Page 15 of 2416 
 
U.S. 398, 406 (1980) (“a more specific statute will be given precedence over a more general 
one”); Morton v. Mancari, 417 U.S. 535, 550–51 (1974) (absent “clear intention otherwise, a 
specific statute will not be controlled or nullified by a general one”).  And the Act was passed 
last month, whereas Rule 6(e) dates to 1946 with occasional amendments, the most 
consequential in 1977.  See, e.g., In re Bernard L. Madoff Inv. Sec. LLC, 12 F.4th 171, 193 (2d 
Cir. 2021) (holding later statute to govern over earlier statute because, “‘when the scope of the 
earlier statute is broad but the subsequent statute more specifically addresses the topic at hand,’ 
there is even greater reason to assume the later statute controls” (quoting Food & Drug Admin. v. 
Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp., 529 U.S. 120, 143 (2000)) (cleaned up)); Everytown for 
Gun Safety Support Fund v. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms & Explosives, 984 F.3d 30, 
37 (2d Cir. 2020) (similar). 
Furthermore, Section 2(b)(1) of the Act implicitly reflects Congress’s intent to overcome 
grand jury secrecy.  A central purpose for the rule of secrecy, and one that continues to apply 
after a grand jury’s investigation has concluded, is “to protect . . . unindicted individuals from the 
anxiety and public castigation that may result from disclosure.”  In re Am. Hist. Ass’n, 62 F. 
Supp. 2d 1100, 1103 (S.D.N.Y. 1999); see also Craig, 131 F.3d at 102 (grand jury secrecy 
protects the “interests of other persons who may have been unfavorably mentioned by grand jury 
witnesses or in questions of the prosecutor” (citation omitted)).  But Section 2(b)(1) of the Act 
expressly provides that the reputational interests of unindicted persons—including public figures 
who associated with Epstein and/or Maxwell—will not justify the withholding or redacting of 
records required to be made public by the Act.  See Act § 2(b)(1) (“No record shall be withheld, 
delayed, or redacted on the basis of embarrassment, reputational harm, or political sensitivity, 
including to any governmental official, public figure, or foreign dignitary.”).  By repudiating that 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 820     Filed 12/09/25     Page 16 of 2417 
 
central purpose for grand jury secrecy, Congress signaled its expectation that the Act would 
overcome grand jury secrecy.  See, e.g., Nat’l Ass’n of Home Builders v. Defs. of Wildlife, 551 
U.S. 644, 664 n.8 (2007) (repeal can occur where new statute “displaces earlier, inconsistent 
[statutory] commands”); Blanchette v. Conn. Gen. Ins. Corps., 419 U.S. 102, 134 (1974) (same 
where “positive repugnancy” exists between earlier and later statutes “that cannot be 
reconciled”).  This outcome accords with the limited case law resolving claims that a federal 
statute has overridden Rule 6(e).9 
The Court thus holds that, in passing the Act, Congress overrode Rule 6(e), in the very 
limited context of the Maxwell and Epstein grand jury materials.  As to other grand juries, the 
secrecy of testimony, exhibits, and any other materials remains the rule, subject to the limited 
exceptions set out in Rule 6(e).  But, in the case of the Maxwell and Epstein grand juries, under 
the Act, public disclosure of such materials is the rule, subject to the limited exceptions set out in 
 
9 Illinois v. Abbott & Associates, Inc., the central case on whether a federal statute partly 
abrogates Rule 6(e), addressed a quite different situation.  460 U.S. 557 (1983).  There, a state 
attorney general sought to obtain federal grand jury records under the Clayton Act, 15 U.S.C. 
§ 15f(b), despite Rule 6(e)’s prohibition on such disclosure absent a showing of “particularized 
need.”  Id. at 560, 566.  The Clayton Act required federal investigative materials to be provided 
to state attorneys general “to the extent permitted by law.”  15 U.S.C. § 15f(b).  The Supreme 
Court held that the Clayton Act did not override Rule 6(e) with respect to grand jury materials.  
Abbott, 460 U.S. at 568.  It held that the disclosure sought by the state attorney general “would 
have been denied [under Rule 6(e)] because it was not permitted by law.”  Id.  Thus, the “plain 
language” of the Clayton Act—with its caveat that investigative materials be disclosed only “to 
the extent permitted by law”—di d not disturb Rule 6(e).  Id.  Rule 6(e)’s legislative history 
strongly reinforced this conclusion, because Congress had specifically rejected a proposal for 
Rule 6(e) to create a right of access similar to that which the state attorney general urged.  Id. 
at 568–70.  In contrast to the Clayton Act, the Epstein Files Transparency Act does not contain 
any caveat, even implicit, that the release of materials related to Epstein and Maxwell must be 
consistent with Rule 6(e). 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 820     Filed 12/09/25     Page 17 of 2418 
 
the Act.  The Act thus requires the Attorney General to make public the Maxwell grand jury 
materials, subject to the withholdings and redactions that the Act permits.10 
B. Modifications of the Protective Order 
 1. Authorization to Release Records Pursuant to the Act 
In light of the above, the Court modifies the Protective Order, governing discovery in this 
case, to add the following paragraph:   
“20.  Nothing in this Protective Orde r shall prohibit the Government from 
publicly releasing materials whose disclo sure is required by the Epstein Files 
Transparency Act.  The restrictions of this Protective Order, however, remain in 
place with respect to the segregable portio ns of records that ‘contain personally 
identifiable information of victims or victims’ personal a nd medical files and 
similar files the disclosure of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted 
invasion of personal privacy.’  Epstein Files Transparency Act § 2(c)(1)(A).” 
 
  2. Mechanism to Protect Victims’ Privacy and Confidentiality  
 
An additional modification of the Protective Order is necessary to assure that, in the 
process of reviewing the extensive discovery in this case for release pursuant to the Act, DOJ 
rigorously guards against releasing protected victim information. 
A paramount goal of the Protective Order entered by Judge Nathan at the start of this case 
was to protect the privacy interests of Maxwell’s and Epstein’s victims.  The Protective Order 
lists the “privacy and confidentiality of individuals” as a basis—along with not impeding the 
then-ongoing investigation and avoiding prejudicial pretrial publicity—for limiting the 
dissemination of discovery.  Protective Order at 1.  It recognizes that the discovery would 
contain “personal identification information of victims, witnesses, or other specific individuals 
who are not parties to this action, and other confidential information.”  Id. at 6.  It prohibits the 
 
10 In light of this holding, the Court does not have occasion to consider the Government’s 
alternative argument: that, in light of the Act, the “special circumstances” exception to Rule 6(e) 
recognized in the Second Circuit now supports disclosure of the Maxwell grand jury records. 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 820     Filed 12/09/25     Page 18 of 2419 
 
defense from making public filings that identify victims or witnesses “who have not spoken by 
name on the public record in this case, unless authorized by the Government in writing or by 
Order of the Court.”  Id. at 5.  It authorizes the Government to designate individual records as 
“Confidential” or “Highly Confidential,” and imposes heightened restrictions on the use and 
disclosure of such discovery.  Id. at 6–10.  The Act recognizes these same privacy interests of 
Maxwell’s and Epstein’s victims, in permitting the Attorney General to withhold release of 
segregable portions of records that would personally identify or otherwise invade the privacy of 
these victims if made public.  Act § 2(c)(1)(A).11 
In moving to modify the Protective Order, DOJ has stated that it will “work with the 
relevant United States Attorney’s Offices to make appropriate redactions of victim-related and 
other personal identifying information.”  Mot. at 8.  The victims of Epstein and Maxwell who 
have written the Court are largely supportive of the Act’s command that DOJ’s investigative 
records relating to Epstein’s and Maxwell’s crimes be made public.  See, e.g., Farmer Letter at 1 
(“Only transparency is likely to lead to justice, and for this reason the victims fought tirelessly to 
achieve the [Act’s] passage.”).  But they have voiced concern that their identities and privacy 
will be compromised in the course of the release of records pursuant to the Act.  See, e.g., Victim 
Consortium Letter at 5–7.  These victims therefore “seek the Court’s assistance in ensuring that 
[their] names and identifying information are protected from public disclosure.”  Id. at 9.  The 
Court construes these victims to request that, in modifying the Protective Order, the Court put in 
place a reliable mechanism to guard against disclosure of their names and other identifying 
information in any discovery subject to that order. 
 
11 With respect to the privacy interests of persons other than victims, however, the Act, departing 
from the Protective Order, prohibits withholding “on the basis of embarrassment, reputational 
harm, or political sensitivity.”  Act § 2(b)(1).   
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 820     Filed 12/09/25     Page 19 of 2420 
 
The victims’ concerns, regrettably, have a basis in fact.  In its two rounds of applications 
to this Court to disclose records, DOJ, although paying lip service to Maxwell’s and Epstein’s 
victims, has not treated them with the solicitude they deserve.  DOJ made its July 18, 2025 
motions to unseal the grand jury materials in this case and Epstein’s without giving notice to 
Maxwell’s and Epstein’s victims.  Only after this Court (and Judge Berman, in Epstein’s case) 
inquired on this point and, sua sponte, set a schedule for victims’ input on the motion, directly or 
through counsel, see Dkt. 789, did DOJ give such notice, see Dkt. 796 at 9.  The letters the Court 
thereupon received from victims widely expressed distress at the lack of notice given to them by 
DOJ, see Dkt. 804 at 8, 16, and alarm that the grand jury records DOJ would release, if 
authorized to do so, would invade their privacy, see id. at 11–12, 17; see also GJ Decision, 794 
F. Supp. 3d at 233 n.18 (summarizing victims’ concerns).  And, as the Court chronicled in 
denying DOJ’s motion, the motion itself misled victims—and the publ ic at large—in holding out 
the Maxwell grand jury materials as essential to the goal of “transparency to the American 
public,” when in fact the grand jury materials would not add to public knowledge.12   
 
12 As the Court put the point in denying that motion:  
 
A member of the public familiar with the Maxwell trial record  who reviewed the 
grand jury materials that the Government proposes to unseal would thus learn next 
to nothing new.  The materials do not id entify any person othe r than Epstein and 
Maxwell as having had sexual contact with a minor.  They do not discuss or identify 
any client of Epstein’s or Maxwell’s.  They do not reveal any heretofore unknown 
means or methods of Epstein’s or Maxwell’s crimes.  They do not reveal new 
venues at which their crimes occurred.  They do not reveal new sources of their 
wealth.  They do not explore the circumst ances of Epstein’s death.  They do not 
reveal the path of the Government’s investigation. . . . 
 
A “public official,” “lawmaker,” “pundit,” or “ordinary citizen” “deeply interested 
and concerned about the Epstein matter,” Motion to Unseal at 3, and who reviewed 
these materials expecting, based on the Government’s representations, to learn new 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 820     Filed 12/09/25     Page 20 of 2421 
 
In applying on November 24, 2025 for leave to release records pursuant to the Act, DOJ 
again acted without notice to Maxwell’s and Epstein’s victims.  See Mot.; Dkt. 813 at 1.  The 
Court (and Judge Berman) were compelled again to direct DOJ forthwith to notify these victims 
of its latest motion, and to set a deadline for victims’ submissions.  Dkt. 811.  
The Court accordingly, in modifying the Protective Order, will require that, before any 
material subject to it is publicly released, the United States Attorney for this District personally 
certify that such material has been rigorously reviewed for—and f ound to be in—compliance 
with Section 2(c)(1)(A) of the Act, which protects victims against revelations of their identities 
and invasions of their privacy.  Congress’s inclusion of that provision reflected its respect for the 
privacy rights of Maxwell’s and Epstein’s victims.  DOJ has pledged to honor that provision.  
See Mot. at 8; Dkt. 813 at 3–4; Dkt. 819 at 1–4.  And the Court has kept in place the Protective 
Order’s prohibition on the disclosure of discovery in this case to the extent that such would 
breach that provision.  The certification requirement that the Court is adding to the Protective 
Order assures that an identifiable official within DOJ takes ownership of the sensitive and vitally 
important process of reviewing discovery to be publicly released.  It will help assure that 
victims’ statutory privacy rights are protected.    
The United States Attorney for this District is the right person to make such a 
certification with respect to the release of discovery subject to the Protective Order in this case, 
for several reasons.  He signed DOJ’s motion seeking modification of the Protective Order while 
pledging to heed Section 2(c)(1)(A).  The USAO he heads, having led the successful 
 
information about Epstein’s and Maxwell’s crimes and the investigation into them, 
would come away feeling disappointed and misled.  
 
GJ Decision, 794 F. Supp. 3d at 227. 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 820     Filed 12/09/25     Page 21 of 2422 
 
investigation and prosecution of Maxwell, and having amassed the discovery in this case and 
furnished it to the defense, is best situated to identify, and properly redact or withhold, victim-
related information within that discovery.  And this Court has great confidence that the 
professionals in the USAO will ably discharge this important and urgent duty.  Designating the 
United States Attorney as the person responsible for certifying compliance with Section 
2(c)(1)(A) with respect to the discovery in this case will also give victims an identifiable 
forum—the USAO in this District—in which to raise concerns particular to them (e.g., that a 
particular record, notation, or type thereof within that discovery may identify a victim).   
In light of the above, the Court will further modify the Protective Order by adding the 
following paragraph:   
“21.  Prior to the release of any reco rds covered by this Protective Order, 
the United States Attorney for the Southe rn District of New York shall personally 
certify, in a sworn declaration filed on the docket of this case, that such records 
have been rigorously review ed for compliance with Se ction 2(c)(1)(A) of the 
Epstein Files Transparency Act, and that none of the records to be released ‘contain 
personally identifiable information of victims or victims’ personal and medical files 
and similar files the disclo sure of which would consti tute a clearly unwarranted 
invasion of personal privacy.’  This re view is to be done by persons including 
attorney(s) at the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New 
York.”13 
 
 
13 For avoidance of doubt, the requirement of a pre-disclosure certification by the United States 
Attorney for this District applies only to the discovery covered by the Protective Order.  DOJ 
undoubtedly possesses substantial records related to Maxwell and Epstein that were not produced 
in discovery in this case, including records it may have obtained after Maxwell’s trial or records 
outside the scope of Rule 16, Rule 17(c), and Jencks Act discovery in this case.  The Protective 
Order, including the requirement the Court has added to it that the United States Attorney certify 
compliance with Section 2(c)(1)(A) of the Act, does not apply to records covered by the Act that 
are outside the discovery in this case, and this Court does not have any authority with respect to 
such records.  DOJ’s reply letter of December 8 states that, to respect victims’ interests, it has 
now developed a process for reviewing records covered by the Act before their release.  Dkt. 819 
at 2–4.   
 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 820     Filed 12/09/25     Page 22 of 2423 
 
 
3. Letter-Specific Issues  
 
Finally, two letters received by the Court—in  addition to addressing the construction of 
the Act—raise issues specific to particular record s that may be within the discovery or grand jury 
materials in this case. 
The letter on behalf of “John Doe” argues that his identity should be redacted from any 
such records because it would likely lead the public to identify his relative, an Epstein victim.  
John Doe Letter at 11–12.  This letter raises the issue of whether Section 2(c)(1)(A) of the Act, 
permitting victim-related withholdings or redactions, applies to records that could identify “John 
Doe.”  The other letter, from counsel Neil Binder, seeks redaction of his clients’ names.  Binder 
Letter at 15–16.  This letter does not appear to seek relief under Section 2(c)(1)(A), but it may 
raise the issue of whether particular records fall within the scope of the Act (i.e., Section 2(a)).   
These record-specific issues are properly taken up, in the first instance, with the USAO.14 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons above, the Court grants DOJ’s motion to unseal—subject to Section 
2(c)(1)(A) of the Act—the grand jury materials in this case.  The Court also grants DOJ’s motion 
to modify the Protective Order issued on July 30, 2020.15  The Court modifies the Protective 
Order by adding to it the following two provisions as final paragraphs: 
 
14 Mr. Binder’s letter separately asks the Court not to modify a protective order in a separate civil 
lawsuit brought against Maxwell.  Binder Letter at 16 (citing Giuffre, 2023 WL 8715697, supra).  
There is no need for such relief.  The Giuffre lawsuit is assigned to a different judge, Judge 
Preska; this Court does not have any authority to modify it; DOJ has not asked this Court to do 
so; and DOJ is not a party to that lawsuit.  See also Dkt. 819 at 3 (DOJ letter of December 8, 
clarifying that it does not seek to modify civil-case protective orders). 
 
15 For clarity for the public and the Court, the Court directs that, in making materials from this 
case publicly available pursuant to the Act, DOJ clearly designate those that are (1) Maxwell 
grand jury materials and (2) discovery materials covered by the Protective Order.  
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 820     Filed 12/09/25     Page 23 of 24"20. Nothing in this Protective Order shall prohibit the Government from 
publicly releasing materials whose disclosure is required by the Epstein Files 
Transparency Act. The restrictions of this Protective Order, however, remain in 
place with respect to the segregable portions of records that 'contain personally 
identifiable information of victims or victims' personal and medical files and 
similar files the disclosure of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted 
invasion of personal privacy.' Epstein Files Transparency Act§ 2(c)(l)(A). 
21. Prior to the release of any records covered by this Protective Order, the 
United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York shall personally 
certify, in a sworn declaration filed on the docket of this case, that such records 
have been rigorously reviewed for compliance with Section 2(c)(l)(A) of the 
Epstein Files Transparency Act, and that none of the records to be released 'contain 
personally identifiable information of victims or victims' personal and medical files 
and similar files the disclosure of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted 
invasion of personal privacy.' This review is to be done by persons including 
attorney(s) at the United States Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New 
York." 
The Clerk of Court is respectfully directed to terminate the motion pending at 
docket 810. 
SO ORDERED. 
Dated: December 9, 2025 
New York, New York 
United States District Judge 
24 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 820     Filed 12/09/25     Page 24 of 24