[Type text] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 19, 2025 
 
 
BY ECF 
 
Honorable Richard M. Berman 
United States District Judge 
Southern District of New York 
500 Pearl Street 
New York, New York 10007 
 
Honorable Paul A. Engelmayer 
United States District Court 
Southern District of New York 
40 Foley Square 
New York, NY 10007 
 
Re: United States v. Jeffrey Epstein, 
19 Cr. 490 (RMB) 
 
United States v. Ghislaine Maxwell, 
20 Cr. 330 (PAE) 
 
Dear Judges Berman and Engelmayer: 
The Government respectfully submits this letter in  response to Your Honors’ December 
10, 2025 Order in United States v. Jeffrey Epstein , 19 Cr. 490 (RMB), Dkt. 92 and December 9, 
2025 Order in United States v. Ghislaine Maxwell, 20 Cr. 330 (PAE), Dkt. 820.  The Government 
submits this letter jointly as it believes that the issues raised are overlapping between the two cases.  
Below, the Government describes the process for its review of certain materials released pursuant 
to H.R. 4405, the Epstein Files Transparency Act (the “Act”), including for compliance with 
Section 2(c)(l)(A) of the Act and, for a subset of those materials, the certification required by the 
Court’s Order in United States v. Maxwell.   
Overview of Relevant Processes and Review Procedures 
The Department is undertaking a victim-oriented approach in  connection with the 
production and public disclosure of materials required by the Act (the “Transparency Act 
Materials”).   
 
 
 
The Jacob K. Javits Federal Building 
26 Federal Plaza, 37th Floor 
New York, New York 10278 
 
U.S. Department of Justice 
 
United States Attorney 
Southern District of New York 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 823     Filed 12/19/25     Page 1 of 5Hons. Richard M. Berman and Paul A. Engelmayer, U.S.D.J. 
December 19, 2025 
Page 2 of 5 
 
 
 
Compilation and Updating of the Victim Privacy File.  Following the passage of the Act, 
the Department, including Department attorneys in both Washington, D.C. and the U.S. Attorney’s 
Office for the Southern District of New York (“SDNY”), immediately undertook a process aimed 
at identifying victims who desired to have personal identifying information redacted from the 
Transparency Act Materials.  That victim-identification process included: 
• Immediate consultation with known counsel for numerous victims; 
• Affirmative reach out to other counsel  identified to the Department as potential 
counsel for victims; 
• Affirmative reach out to counsel for certain victim compensation funds; and 
• A public invitation to victims to contact the Department directly. 
In connection with these efforts, the Department: 
• Held more than 30 meetings and calls (in person or virtually) with victims’ counsel 
and, where appropriate, with certain victims directly; and 
• Compiled and continuously updated a file (the “Victim Privacy File”)  of victim 
names and certain other victim -identifying information provided by victims  
(“Victim Privacy Information”).  The list of victims includes individuals identified 
as victims or potential victims through the Department’s prior prosecutions of 
Epstein and Maxwell as well as individuals who have (directly or through counsel) 
been identified to the Department as pot ential victims of state or federal offenses 
or other claims of sexual exploitation or misconduct by Epstein or Maxwell. 
Identification of Transparency Act Materials and Review for Victim Privacy 
Information.  Simultaneously with the compilation and continuous updating of the Victim Privacy 
File, Department attorneys in Washington, D.C., undertook a review of pertinent files to identify 
the Transparency Act Materials and, as Transparency Act Materials were identified, review  them 
for Victim Privacy Information, privileged information, and other information that should be 
redacted in accordance with the Act.  That review and redaction process included: 
• Collecting materials from different components of the Department of Justice,  
processing those materials for review, making the materials  searchable, and 
uploading the materials into a review database used for large -scale document 
productions; and 
• Overseeing more than 150 lawyers and other Department personnel in Washington, 
D.C., reviewing the potentially responsive information to (1) identify Transparency 
Act Materials and (2) make appropriate redactions , including for Victim Privacy 
Information. 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 823     Filed 12/19/25     Page 2 of 5Hons. Richard M. Berman and Paul A. Engelmayer, U.S.D.J. 
December 19, 2025 
Page 3 of 5 
 
 
 
Certification Process by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the SDNY 
Following the review  and redactions process  described above, a n additional  review of 
materials related to United States v. Maxwell  is being conducted by attorneys in the SDNY .  In 
particular: 
• Transparency Act Materials collected by the Department from SDNY  and certain 
related FBI casefiles1 that are (i) deemed by the Department to be responsive to the 
Act, (ii) reviewed  for Victim Privacy Information by Department attorneys in 
Washington D .C., and (iii) prepared for publication under the Act through the 
process set out above are routed to SDNY Assistant U.S. Attorneys (AUSAs) for 
an additional review on a rolling basis. 
• SDNY AUSAs then conduct a review of  those materials.  As of the date of this 
letter, under this process, AUSAs from SDNY do not apply additional redactions 
and instead confirm that the redactions applied by the Department cover the Victim 
Privacy Information. 2  Any documents identified as still containing unredacted 
Victim Privacy Information are segregated for further review and additional 
redactions, if necessary, before public release. 
• The review by SDNY AUSAs is designed to ensure that the following Victim 
Privacy Information is redacted to the maximum extent practicable:  (i) information 
in the Victim Privacy File (e.g., victim names) ; (ii) information or context in a 
document suggesting that a third party identified in the document is a victim; 
(iii) facial images of women; (iv) facial images and names of apparent minors; and 
(v) information that would tend to identify a victim by identifying the victim’s 
family, close associates, or unique characteristics. 
• SDNY AUSAs are instructed that, when in doubt about whether a document  or 
other material contains Victim Privacy Information, the AUSAs should err in favor 
 
1 The Department has separately collected documents from relevant components, including the 
Federal Bureau of Prisons and the Office of Inspector General.  
2  While not specifically relevant to the Court’s Order, SDNY AUSAs may further review 
documents to determine whether the redactions are consistent with the Department’s instructions  
for protecting Privacy Act materials  and other privileges.  To the extent a determination is made 
in the future to release a document that has been withheld or to unredact a document—in whole or 
in part—that has been released in redacted form, the SDNY will seek to conduct a de novo review 
to ensure that Victim Privacy Information is redacted to the maximum extent practicable before 
that document is released. 
 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 823     Filed 12/19/25     Page 3 of 5Hons. Richard M. Berman and Paul A. Engelmayer, U.S.D.J. 
December 19, 2025 
Page 4 of 5 
of segregating the document or material for further review before it is publicly 
released. 
• Any documents identified through this process as marked for further review before
public release are, under the current protocol, put into a pool for further review, and
will not be released until SDNY AUSAs confirm that the redactions cover the
Victim Privacy Information.
• The Department then prepares the materials reviewed and approved by the SDNY
AUSAs for release on the Department’s publicly available and searchable website.
• Materials that are specifically identified in the Court’s Order are designated with
additional markings.  Materials that are Maxwell Grand Jury Materials contain a
separate marking (“GM_GJ_SDNY”) and materials  that are Maxwell Protective
Order Discovery Materials contain the original SDNY bates stamp (with the prefix
of “SDNY_GM_”).
3
• T
his review is ongoing, involves substantial commitment of SDNY AUSA
resources, and is being done as expeditiously as possible in response to the Court’s
Order and in consideration of the Act.  As documents complete the first phase of
review by the Department, they are being promptly reviewed by SDNY AUSAs in
an effort to expeditiously certify materials for release under the Act.
To be sure, there are a variety of challenges and tensions in addressing the requirements of 
the Act on a basis consistent with the Department’s commitment to protecting  Victim Privacy 
Information.  Any review and redaction process of this size and scope is vulnerable to machine 
error, instances of human error in review, insufficient information about a victim to apply 
redactions, and the possibility that the media or others in the public will piece together information 
that in isolation does not identify a victim but can be pieced together to identify a victim.  Posting 
information on a publicly available website also poses risks of intrusion and technical errors.   
In addition, the review and redaction process, and particularly the focus on victim privacy 
interests, can result in the redaction of materials that may already be publicly available or where 
the disclosure of such redacted information, with hindsight, would not put victim privacy interests 
at risk. For example, victim privacy interests counsel in favor of redacting the faces of women in 
photographs with Epstein even where not all the women are known to be victims because it is not 
practicable for the Department to identify every person in a photo with the information available 
3 The Department expects that materials produced pursuant to the Protective Order in the Maxwell 
case may be duplicative of certain materials contained in, for example, the FBI’s case file.  While 
the FBI case file versions of such documents were not themselves produced under the Protective 
Order, and thus are not Maxwell Protective Order Discovery Materials, the Department is making 
efforts to treat those materials consistently where practicable, including by processing many of the 
relevant FBI casefiles through the framework described above.   
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 823     Filed 12/19/25     Page 4 of 5Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 823     Filed 12/19/25     Page 5 of 5