[Type text] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
January 27, 2026 
 
 
BY ECF 
 
Honorable Richard M. Berman 
United States District Judge 
Southern District of New York 
500 Pearl Street 
New York, New York 10007 
 
Honorable Paul A. Engelmayer 
United States District Court 
Southern District of New York 
40 Foley Square 
New York, NY 10007 
 
Re: United States v. Jeffrey Epstein, 
19 Cr. 490 (RMB) 
 
United States v. Ghislaine Maxwell, 
20 Cr. 330 (PAE) 
 
Dear Judges Berman and Engelmayer: 
The Department respectfully submits this letter as an update to its previous submissions to 
the Court regarding the review and redaction of certain of the materials required to be published 
pursuant to the directives of H.R. 4405, the Epstein Files Transparency Act (the “Act”).
1     
The Department continues to make substantial progress in its efforts to identify potentially 
responsive documents, review those documents, redact victim identifying information and 
privileged information, engage in quality control processes, and prepare responsive documents for 
 
1 In particular, the Department references United States v. Epstein, 19 Cr. 490 (RMB) (S.D.N.Y.) 
Dkts. 87, 88, 91, 94; and United States v. Maxwell, 20 Cr. 330 (PAE) (S.D.N.Y.) Dkts. 819, 823, 
826, 839. As noted in the Department’s prior letters, while not all the materials under review are 
covered by the Courts’ Orders, the Department nevertheless continues to implement procedures 
across its review to ensure that victim- identifying information is protect ed consistent with the 
Courts’ Orders and to the maximum extent practicable. 
 
 
 
The Jacob K. Javits Federal Building 
26 Federal Plaza, 37th Floor 
New York, New York 10278 
 
U.S. Department of Justice 
 
United States Attorney 
Southern District of New York 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 845     Filed 01/27/26     Page 1 of 4Hons. Richard M. Berman and Paul A. Engelmayer, U.S.D.J. 
January 27, 2026 
Page 2 of 4 
 
 
 
publication in accordance with the Act.  Indeed, the Department has reviewed millions of pages of 
materials, applying  redactions as appropriate, to include d ocuments (such as emails and text 
messages) as well as video and audio recordings created and/or maintained by the defendants.  The 
Department continues to engage with victims and victims’ counsel and apply quality control 
checks to ensure that victim privacy is protected to the maximum extent practicable. 
Contemporaneously with these efforts, the Department, using internal resources and with support 
from its vendors, has endeavored to ensure that the document management systems it i s using to 
comply with the Act are operating and will continue to operate in accordance with the requirements 
of the Act and the Department’s commitment to protecting victims’ privacy.  Those efforts include 
not only manual review by hundreds of Department attorneys, agents and others conducting page-
by-page review of millions of pages of documents, but also electronic searches for victims’ names 
or other identifiers to isolate  documents that are particularly sensitive and require supplemental 
review as well as relief from various protective Orders issued in other Courts.  
The Department currently expects that it will complete these processes with respect to 
substantially all of the potentially responsive documents, including publication to the Epstein 
Library website, in the near term.  The Department is not able to provide a specific date at this 
time and cautions that its ongoing processes, including its quality control checks and document 
management system preparations, may require additional efforts to ensure the protection of victim-
identifying information while complying with the broad demands of the Act.   
More specifically: 
• The Department has reviewed  and redacted, as appropriate, several millions  of 
pages of materials identified in files maintained by the Department, the FBI, and 
the relevant U.S. Attorneys’ Offices; 
• These materials include not only internal Department communications, but 
documents acquired and created in the course of the various investigations at issue 
as well as audio and video files obtained during those investigations—redacted as 
appropriate pursuant to the Act and the Department’s ongoing commitment to the 
protection of victims; 
• As noted in prior correspondence, these materials have been subject to manual 
review by hundreds of Department employees, in consultation with counsel for 
victims as well as the victims themselves, to mitigate and minimize the risk of 
disclosure of any victim-identifying information.
2   
 
2 As the Department previously  noted, compliance with the Act is a substantial undertaking, 
principally because of the size and varying types of materials and because, for a substantial number 
of those materials, the capabilities of the document management systems are not in themselves 
sufficient to ensure victim identifying information is redacted.  As a result careful, manual review 
is necessary to ensure that information is identified and redacted before materials are released. 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 845     Filed 01/27/26     Page 2 of 4Hons. Richard M. Berman and Paul A. Engelmayer, U.S.D.J. 
January 27, 2026 
Page 3 of 4 
 
 
 
Department attorneys, agents, and others have dedicated days and weeks to compliance 
with the Act and will continue to do so until it is complete.  In addition, pursuant to the Court’s 
directive, including attorneys from the SDNY, have taken an additional review to ensure that any 
production is consistent with both the letter and spirit of the Courts’ protective Orders. 
Specifically: 
• This manual review has included for example, searches related to the names of 
hundreds of self-identified victims as well as individuals , out of an abundance of 
caution, the Department itself believes are or may be victims  based on the 
information available to the Department.  The Department has undertaken this 
potential victim identification process  with great caution and inclusiveness in the 
spirit of its obligations to victims and the Courts’ Orders;  
• In addition to the victim-related searches and manual reviews, the Department is in 
the process of conducting various quality- control related searches and reviews to 
ensure that its processes have operated as expected and have provided, to the extent 
practicable, the maximum level of consistency in the treatment of similar materials 
across the production; and 
• The Department has continued to work with, and will continue to work with, 
counsel for victims, and indeed victims themselves, to ensure that the anticipated 
productions identify and redact victim-identifying information. 
  The Department continues to invite victims and/or their counsel to contact the Department 
promptly if there is any concern about materials that are published pursuant to the Act.  As noted 
in prior filings with the Court, and public statements, the Department remains committed to 
protecting the privacy of victims and other personal identifying information (“PII”), the production 
of which is not called for under the Act.   
To the extent applicable, t he Department reminds the public generally, and victims 
specifically, that if anyone believes materials improperly or inappropriately have been published 
pursuant to the Act at https://www.justice.gov/epstein, they should contact the Department at 
EFTA@usdoj.gov.   
The Department will continue to apprise the Court of its progress in this regard.  Although 
the Act provide s for the withholding of materials on a temporary bas is to allow for review and 
redaction of personally identifiable information of victims ,3 as discussed above, hundreds of 
Department employees are working diligently to complete this review as expeditiously as possible 
 
 
3 In addition, in its efforts to comply with the Court ’s Orders, the Department ha s undertaken 
particular processes for certification of protective order materials before their release.   
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 845     Filed 01/27/26     Page 3 of 4Hons. Richard M. Berman and Paul A. Engelmayer, U.S.D.J. 
January 27, 2026 
Page 4 of 4 
 
 
 
without compromising victims’ privacy so that its production can be complete .  See  Act § 
2(c)(1)(A) & (C). 
The Government remains available, as always, to answer any questions the Court may 
have. 
Respectfully yours, 
 
PAMELA J. BONDI 
United States Attorney General 
 
TODD BLANCHE 
Deputy United States Attorney General  
United States Department of Justice 
 
 
/s/ Jay Clayton     
JAY CLAYTON 
United States Attorney 
Southern District of New York 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 845     Filed 01/27/26     Page 4 of 4