[Type text] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
February 2, 2026 
 
 
BY ECF 
 
Honorable Richard M. Berman 
United States District Judge 
Southern District of New York 
500 Pearl Street 
New York, New York 10007 
 
Honorable Paul A. Engelmayer 
United States District Court 
Southern District of New York 
40 Foley Square 
New York, NY 10007 
 
Re: United States v. Jeffrey Epstein, 
19 Cr. 490 (RMB) 
 
United States v. Ghislaine Maxwell, 
20 Cr. 330 (PAE) 
 
Dear Judges Berman and Engelmayer: 
The Department respectfully submits this letter to provide an update to the Court and 
counsel regarding  its ongoing efforts to protect victim privacy.  See United States v. Epstein, 19 
Cr. 490 (RMB), Dkt. 99; United States v. Maxwell, 20 Cr. 330 (PAE), Dkt. 847.  In particular, the 
Department has further expedite d its processes for receiving and responding to victim outreach 
concerning documents , as well as removing documents that inadvertently were produced and 
contain victim- identifying information. In addition, the Government writes to respond to, and 
provide additional context for, representations made by counsel in its letter motion, dated February 
1, 2026.  As of the writing of this letter, all documents requested by victims or counsel to be 
removed by yesterday evening have been removed for further redaction, and the Department is 
continuing to process any new requests and to run its own searches to identify any other documents 
that may require further redaction. The Department submits this letter jointly to Your Honors as it 
believes that the issues raised are overlapping between the two cases.   
 
 
 
The Jacob K. Javits Federal Building 
26 Federal Plaza, 37th Floor 
New York, New York 10278 
 
U.S. Department of Justice 
 
United States Attorney 
Southern District of New York 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 848     Filed 02/02/26     Page 1 of 4Hons. Richard M. Berman and Paul A. Engelmayer, U.S.D.J. 
February 2, 2026 
Page 2 of 4 
 
 
 
In our letter of Friday, January 30, 2026, we alerted the Court that the Department would, 
with specifically identified exceptions, produce identified documents, files, records, videos and 
images held by the Department related to the various investigations of Jeffrey Epstein and Ghislane 
Maxwell as required by Epstein Files Transparency Act, Pub. L. 119-38, 139 Stat. 656 (Nov. 19, 
2025) (the “Act”).  As indicated, and throughout the course of Friday , the Department uploaded 
more than 3 million pages to the public website.  Since those files were uploaded, the Department 
has continued to engage with victims and counsel for victims regarding concerns they may have 
regarding any of the documents posted. 
The Department recognizes that the importance  of implementing an extensive process to 
manually review and redact documents to best protect victim identifying information necessitates 
a supplemental process to address any concerns raised by victims following the posting of 
documents.  Since the release of documents on Friday, victims and counsel have requested further 
redaction of particular documents, alerted the Department to new victim identifiers and name 
variants of victims, and requested changes to the process for review and redaction of  posted 
documents flagged for additional review.  Based on such communications and experience with the 
relevant document management systems over the weekend, the Department has iteratively revised 
its protocols for addressing flagged documents.   
The Department has teams of personnel committed to monitoring requests by victims and 
counsel to add additional redactions to posted documents .  As a victim concern is raised to the 
Department, the document or documents in question promptly will be pulled down from the 
Epstein Library website while the Department evaluates the claim or concern raised by the victim 
and whether redactions or other measures are appropriate .  Once that process is complete, the 
Department promptly will re-post a redacted version  of the document—ideally within 24 to 36 
hours—using the same Bates number the document previously bore to ensure consistency and 
continuity in the files posted on Friday.   
In that vein, t he Department has received numerous inquiries and requests for additional 
redactions, and continues to encourage victims and their counsel to identify any documents that 
they view as concerning to their privacy, reputation or personal safety.  In addition, the Department 
is running searches against the Epstein Library database, based on communication with counsel, 
victims, and third parties to identify documents that refer to identifiers for victims  previously not 
known to the Department, name variations that counsel has identified, as well as PII that 
inadvertently may have been published despite the Department’s extensive review.  The 
Department notes, however, that it is not relying solely upon counsel and the victims to identify 
specific documents—although it does prioritize such identified documents where appropriate.  The 
Department through the weekend has had a team running supplemental searches to identify missed 
redactions when a victim or co unsel raises a concern that a victim is appearing in the public 
database and is now additionally running searches to identify potentially missed redactions even 
where counsel or a victim has not contacted the Department.   
The first 24 hours of engagement on these issues, as well as the Department’s own internal 
review of its processes , following the release of documents on Friday led to significant 
enhancements to and streamlining of the Department’s processes for addressing victim concerns.  
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 848     Filed 02/02/26     Page 2 of 4Hons. Richard M. Berman and Paul A. Engelmayer, U.S.D.J. 
February 2, 2026 
Page 3 of 4 
 
 
 
The Department continuously is evaluating its processes and mak ing further enhancements  as 
necessary or appropri ate based on continued engagement with victim counsel so that the 
Department can best address victim concerns while also complying  with the Requirements of the 
Act.1 
The Department has worked all hours through the weekend from the point when the first 
victim-related concerns were raised.  To that end, out of the larger production described above, the 
Department now has taken down several thousands  of documents and media  that may have 
inadvertently included victim-identifying information due to various factors, including technical 
or human error .  As of the date of this letter, the Department now has taken down nearly all of 
those materials specifically identified by victims or their counsel, as well a substantial number of 
documents identified independently by the Department. The Department is r eviewing those 
documents and will re-process them.  As part of this procedure, for reasons related to the operation 
of the document management system,  the Dep artment must periodically “re -index” the data 
contained on the Epstein Library website to ensure that, al though a document has been reviewed  
and redacted for reposting, the underlying metadata that permits the search functionality of the 
database also is cleansed of the relevant information related to the document.  This process and 
the additional searches are substantially complete but remain ongoing. 
  
 
1 To be sure, the Department ’s commitment to protecting victims is being approached consistent 
with the Department’s commitment to transparency.  In this regard, the Department has committed 
to work with House and Senate leadership to allow members of Congress to inspect unredacted 
versions of the produced materials to demonstrate that the redactions have been imposed consistent 
with the requirements of the Act, including the protections of victim -identifying information set 
for at Section 2(c)(1)(A). 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 848     Filed 02/02/26     Page 3 of 4Hons. Richard M. Berman and Paul A. Engelmayer, U.S.D.J. 
February 2, 2026 
Page 4 of 4 
 
 
 
The undersigned will continue to keep the Court apprised of relevant developments and 
remains available, as always, to answer any questions the Court may have.  
Respectfully yours, 
 
 
PAMELA J. BONDI 
United States Attorney General 
 
TODD BLANCHE 
Deputy United States Attorney General  
United States Department of Justice 
 
 
/s/ Jay Clayton     
JAY CLAYTON 
United States Attorney 
Southern District of New York 
 
 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 848     Filed 02/02/26     Page 4 of 4