[Type text] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
January 31, 2026 
 
 
BY ECF 
 
Honorable Richard M. Berman 
United States District Judge 
Southern District of New York 
500 Pearl Street 
New York, New York 10007 
 
Honorable Paul A. Engelmayer 
United States District Court 
Southern District of New York 
40 Foley Square 
New York, NY 10007 
 
Re: United States v. Jeffrey Epstein, 
19 Cr. 490 (RMB) 
 
United States v. Ghislaine Maxwell, 
20 Cr. 330 (PAE) 
 
Dear Judges Berman and Engelmayer: 
The Government respectfully submits this letter in  response to Your Honors’ December 
10, 2025, Order in United States v. Epstein, 19 Cr. 490 (RMB), Dkt. 92, as well as the December 
9, 2025 Order in United States v. Maxwell, 20 Cr. 330 (PAE), Dkt. 820. The Government submits 
this letter jointly as it believes that the issues raised are overlapping between the two cases.   
In our letter of yesterday, we alerted the Court that the Department would, with specifically 
identified exceptions, produce identified documents, files, records, videos and images held by the 
Department related to the investigations of Jeffrey Epstein and Ghislane Maxwell as required by 
Epstein Files Transparency Act, Pub. L. 119- 38, 139 Stat. 656 (Nov. 19, 2025) (the “Act”) .  As 
indicated, and throughout the course of yesterday, the Department uploaded more than 3 million 
pages to the public website.  We write below with a set of relevant updates and remain available 
to answer any questions from the Court. 
 
 
 
The Jacob K. Javits Federal Building 
26 Federal Plaza, 37th Floor 
New York, New York 10278 
 
U.S. Department of Justice 
 
United States Attorney 
Southern District of New York 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 847     Filed 01/31/26     Page 1 of 2Hons. Richard M. Berman and Paul A. Engelmayer, U.S.D.J. 
January 31, 2026 
Page 2 of 2 
 
 
 
Protection of Victim Identifying Information.  The Government’s letter yesterday 
discussed, among other issues, the Department’s substantial  efforts to protect victim privacy, 
including the steps the Department was prepared to take in the event of the inadvertent publication 
of victim names or the publication  of information that could be used to identify victims.  Given, 
among other things, the manual review and redaction process required to comply with the Act, the 
Department has been alerted by several victims and victim counsel to instances where additional 
redactions are needed to protect victim privacy.  Additionally, yesterday, counsel for certain 
victims contacted the Department to provide additional identifiers not previously provided to the 
Department for redaction.  Reques ts for additional, or corrected, redactions are submitted to an 
email account ( EFTA@usdoj.gov) that is continuously monitored by a team of dedicated 
Department personnel that are working to redact and replace the documents.  Over t he course of 
yesterday and today, the Department has also been working to enhance its processes for reviewing 
and responding to these requests, including adding additional personnel to the response team.  
Attorneys at the SDNY have additionally been confer ring with victim counsel since prior to the 
document release, providing updates as tranches of documents were uploaded to the public 
website, and have offered to provide assistance to counsel in this process.  The volume of 
documents responsive to the Act and the nature of the materials present challenges to quickly 
redacting documents once they have been flagged, but the Department remains committed to 
meeting its obligations under the Act while also diligently protecting victim privacy , and is 
working to further expedite its processes today for receiving and responding to victim outreach 
concerning documents.     
Document Uploads.  Throughout all of yesterday, and including as final quality control 
processes and file checks were completed, the Department uploaded a series of tranches of 
documents to the public website.  Additionally, yesterday afternoon, the Honorable Analisa Torres 
issued an Order authorizing the Department to publicly disclose transcripts and exhibits from grand 
jury proceedings in United States v. Noel et al., 19 Cr. 830 (AT) , Dkt. 73.  The Department will 
promptly release appropriately redacted versions of such materials.  As noted in the Department’s 
EFTA Production Letter to Congress yesterday, it has also made an application to release certain 
materials sealed in a civil proceeding, and awaits further guidance from the Court in that matter.  
The Government will continue to keep the Court appraised of relevant developments and 
remains available, as always, to answer any questions the Court may have.  
Respectfully yours, 
 
/s/ Jay Clayton     
JAY CLAYTON 
United States Attorney 
Southern District of New York 
 
 
Case 1:20-cr-00330-PAE     Document 847     Filed 01/31/26     Page 2 of 2