U.S. Department of Justice 
Office of the Deputy Attorney General 
The Deputy Attorney General Ubshington, D.C. 20530 
January 30, 2026 
Re: Epstein Files Transparency Act - Production of Department Materials 
President Trump signed the Epstein Files Transparency Act (the Act) into law on 
November 19, 2025, directing the Department of Justice to produce, with few exceptions, all 
documents, files, records, videos and images related to the investigations and prosecutions of 
Jeffrey Epstein and Ghislane Maxwell. 1 Today's production marks the Department's compliance 
with its production obligations under the Act. 
Overview 
As detailed below, the Department's document identification and review protocols 
consisted of multiple levels of review and quality control procedures designed to ensure 
compliance with the Act, resulting in the production of all materials from the Department, with 
few identified exceptions. More than 500 attorneys and reviewers from the Department 
contributed to this effort, with the objective of identifying all potentially responsive materials for 
review and production while carefully redacting any information that could identify victims or 
that was otherwise required to be redacted under law. In addition, the United States Attorney's 
Office for the Southern District of New York (USAO-SDNY ) employed an additional review 
protocol to ensure compliance with a court order under which United States Attorney Jay 
Clayton must certify that, with respect to certain materials, a rigorous process was undertaken to 
protect victims against any clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy. 
The Department's collection efforts resulted in more than 6 million pages being identified 
as potentially responsive, including Department and FBI emails, interview summaries, images, 
1 In relevant part, the Act requires the Department to publish (in a searchable and downloadable format), 
among other things, "all unclassified records, documents, communications, and investigative materials in 
the possession of the Department ... that relate to ( 1) Jeffrey Epstein including all investigations, 
prosecutions, or custodial matters; (2) Ghislaine Maxwell; (3) flight logs and travel records ... ; and ( 4) 
individuals, including government officials, named or referenced in connection with Epstein's criminal 
activities." See Sec. 2(a). 
Page 1 of6 videos, and various other materials collected and generated during the various investigations and 
prosecutions covered by the Act. 
These files were collected from five primary sources: (1) the Florida and New York cases 
against Epstein; (2) the New York case against Maxwell; (3) the New York cases investigating 
Epstein's death; ( 4) the Florida case investigating a former butler of Epstein; and (5) multiple 
FBI investigations; and (6) the Office of Inspector General investigation into Epstein's death. 
The Department erred on the side of over-collecting materials from various sources to best 
ensure maximum transparency and compliance with the Act. Prudently over-collecting, coupled 
with past intra-Department sharing of (and, therefore, duplication of) files across offices and 
jurisdictions, necessarily means that the number of non-duplicative, responsive pages is 
significantly smaller than the total number of pages initially collected. As a result, today, the 
Department is releasing the over 3 million responsive pages, including more than 2,000 videos 
and 180,000 images. Combined with prior releases, this makes the total production nearly 3.5 
million pages released in compliance with the Act. 
The Department's efforts to identify all potentially responsive documents has been 
extensive. This process included identifying materials stored in various formats in multiple 
offices spanning multiple investigations and prosecutions over a period of over twenty years. As 
a result, the document identification process was substantially manual and iterative with the 
document review process often leading Department personnel to search locations not previously 
identified. These efforts included conferring with available relevant personnel and third parties to 
best ensure that document identification efforts were informed by personnel associated with the 
investigative and prosecutorial efforts. 
The Department will upload the materials described below through the course of the day. 
The materials produced by the Department are best reviewed with an understanding of the 
document identification and review protocol employed by the Department, including the 
Department's approach to the collection of materials from multiple sources and the redaction of 
victim-identifying information and other information as contemplated by the Act. This protocol 
is described below along with a discussion of the Department's approach to (1) the production of 
certain documents covered by court orders, including an order by the Southern District of New 
York (SONY) court handling the case against Maxwell as well as sealing orders in a separate 
civil action (to which the Department is not a party) as described in further detail below, and (2) 
the production of sexually explicit material. 
Document Identification and Review Protocol 
The Department implemented and periodically updated a review protocol that tracks the 
language of the Act. Importantly, the protocol provided reviewers with instructions on how to 
identify and redact victim identifying information and privileged materials. The protocol was 
updated from time to time as the Department learned more about the scope and type of 
potentially responsive materials, the various types of information that could identify victims, and 
Page2 of6 the capabilities and limitations of its document management systems. For example, reviewers 
were provided with Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) to update guidance and instructions as 
common questions arose during the review. The final document identification and review 
protocol are being produced today as part of the Department's response under the Act. 
The protocol established by the Department included several layers of review. The first 
level of review was completed by over 500 members of the Department, including trial attorneys 
from the National Security Division and the Criminal Division at Main Justice, Assistant United 
States Attorneys from the Southern District of Florida, the Southern District of New York, the 
Northern District of New York, and attorneys and 
specialists at the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation. Following the first level ofreview, a second-level review was conducted by a 
group of 40 specialized attorneys. These attorneys conducted a sample-based review of the files 
reviewed by the first-level reviewers to maximize compliance with the Act and the identification 
and review protocol, including the FAQs. As is common practice in any large-scale document 
review, if a second-level reviewer identified common errors or over-redactions, those issues were 
relayed back to the first-level reviewers to ensure that other files were redacted as contemplated 
by the Act and in accordance with the identification and review protocol. The attorneys from this 
second-level review team included attorneys from the Department's Office of Privacy and Civil 
Liberties (OPCL) and Office oflnformation Policy (OIP), many of whom are experts in privacy 
rights and have relevant experience with large-scale document reviews. 
Additional SDNY Quality Control Review To ensure compliance with the SONY court 
order requiring the United States Attorney for the SDNY to certify that materials released under 
court order (i.e., materials covered by an SDNY court protective order and grand jury materials) 
had been rigorously reviewed and, through that review, none of released records had been 
identified to contain personally identifiable information of victims "the disclosure of which 
would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy," the Department 
implemented additional quality control procedures for these materials. Namely, with the 
exception of materials covered by the SDFL Quality Control Review described below, attorneys 
from SONY reviewed: (i) any document identified through search terms as containing a known 
victim name; (ii) categories of particularly sensitive victim documents (such as prior statements 
of victims and other related witnesses); and (iii) a random sampling of remaining documents. 
SDNY's review was focused on reviewing and applying redactions to protect victim information. 
This process provided another layer of assurance of compliance with the Act and the protection 
of victims while separately complying with the SONY court order. 
Additional SDFL Quality Control Review. Attorneys from the Southern District of 
Florida (SDFL) also conducted several layers of review focused on reviewing and applying 
redactions to protect victim information. A set of 36 attorneys conducted an initial review of 
SDFL files. Thereafter, a set of 10 attorneys conducted a second-level review of the redactions, 
which was filed by a third-level review based on searches for sensitive victim information. This 
Page3 of6 process provided another layer of assurance of compliance with the Act and the protection of 
victim-identifying information while separately complying with the SDNY court order. 
In practice, virtually all of the time and attention of Department personnel who 
participated in the manual review and redaction efforts was devoted to maximizing the protection 
of victim-identifying information. 
Subsequent Reporting Under the Act. Under the Act, the Department must subsequently 
"submit to the House and Senate Committees on the Judiciary a report listing (1) all categories of 
records released and withheld; (2) a summary of redactions made, including legal basis; [and] (3) 
a list of all government officials and politically exposed persons named or referenced in the 
released materials." See Sec. 3 (cleaned up). To that end, and as disclosed in the December 19 
letter to Congress, the categories of documents withheld include those permitted under the Act: 
Files that "(A) contain personally identifiable information of victims or victims' personal and 
medical files and similar files the disclosure of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted 
invasion of personal privacy; (B) depict or contain child sexual abuse materials (CSAM) as 
defined under 18 U.S.C. 2256 and prohibited under 18 U.S.C. 2252-2252A; (C) would 
jeopardize an active federal investigation or ongoing prosecution, provided that such withholding 
is narrowly tailored and temporary; [or] (D) depict or contain images of death, physical abuse, or 
injury of any person." See Sec. 2(c)( l) . Although the Act allows for withholding for items 
necessary "to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy"-no files are 
being withheld or redacted on that basis. 
If after that report is submitted any member of Congress wishes to view personally any 
portions of the production in unredacted form, they are welcome to make arrangements with the 
Department to do so. These arrangements should be made through the leadership of the House 
and Senate Committees on the Judiciary and will be subject to customary and appropriate 
confidentiality undertakings. 
Privileged-Based Redactions. Further, consistent with the December 19, 2025 letter, the 
Department withheld or redacted files covered by various privileges, including deliberative­
process privilege, the work-product doctrine, and attorney-client privilege. In total, 
approximately 200,000 pages have been redacted or withheld based on various privileges. A 
formal report with a summary of redactions made and list of all government officials and 
politically exposed persons named or referenced in the released materials will be submitted to the 
House and Senate Committees on the Judiciary within 15 days of today's release. 
Duplications, Potential Inconsistencies and Victim Engagement. Considering various 
factors, including the volume of documents reviewed, the presence of duplicative and partially 
duplicative documents, and the number of attorneys and reviewers involved, inconsistencies will 
likely exist in how reviewers applied redactions. The multiple-layered review process, including 
quality control check, was designed to minimize inconsistencies, but variations are inevitable 
given the volume of materials reviewed, the necessity for manual review, the importance of 
Page 4 of6 redacting victim information, and the iterative nature of the various elements of the protocol. 
For example, during this process, the Department continued to engage with attorneys 
representing victims and others. This engagement led to additional victim names being added to 
the review guidance. In addition, conferring with victim counsel and further review of 
communications involving people initially identified as victims caused the Department to 
conclude that certain individuals whose names were initially being redacted out of an abundance 
of caution should no longer be redacted. At that point, those names were not redacted on a go­
forward basis. And while the second-level reviewers took steps to minimize the inconsistencies 
in redacting those individuals' information, inconsistencies likely remain. 
The Department remains committed to protecting the privacy of victims and welcome 
continued engagement from victims and their counsel. In that regard, the Department has 
established an email inbox for victims to reach us directly to correct redaction concerns when 
appropriate. 
Production Format. In general, documents have been produced in the format that they 
were collected and loaded into the document management system. For example, if a document 
obtained from a third party during the criminal investigation originally had redactions in it, the 
produced version of that document contains those redactions. Additionally, electronic files (e.g., 
emails) were provided or obtained in various formats. As they were loaded into the document 
management system for review, these various formats have caused certain emails to display 
differently, appear cut off, or display with symbols. In some instances, these documents contain 
previously applied Bates numbers. Those Bates numbers do not reflect whether an item is 
responsive under the Act. Only those documents that include a Bates number with "EFTA" in its 
designation are those that are responsive under the Act. The Department has reviewed and 
produced these items as they were formatted upon entry into the document management system. 
Foreign Language Documents and Technically Incompatible Documents. The 
Department's collection of documents included pages in various foreign languages. Because it 
was not practicable for a first-level reviewer to determine the responsiveness of a foreign­
language document, those pages have not been produced. Similarly, some materials could not be 
uploaded for review on the Department's discovery platform because of technical issues with the 
files. Those items could not be reviewed for responsiveness and have not been produced. 
Protective and Sealing Orders. A portion of the documents collected pursuant to the Act 
include materials that a law firm produced to the SONY in 2019 pursuant to a grand jury 
subpoena during the criminal investigation into Ghislaine Maxwell. For the law firm to produce 
documents responsive to the SONY subpoena, the SONY U.S. Attorney sought and obtained a 
court order allowing the law firm to produce to SONY materials otherwise covered by a 
protective order from a separate civil action (again, to which the Department is not a party), and 
some of which have been filed under seal in that action. The Department concluded that prior to 
producing the materials pursuant to the Act, it would be prudent to seek an order from the court 
Page 5 of6 allowing production of the materials subject to sealing orders in the civil lawsuit. To that end, the 
Department has filed that motion in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York 
and, if and to the extent the motion is granted, will promptly release the materials with 
appropriate redactions. Additionally, the Department has moved in the U.S. District Court for the 
Southern District of New York to release certain grand jury materials from an SONY case 
charging corrections officers who worked at the correctional facility when Epstein killed himself. 
If that motion is granted, the materials will be released promptly with appropriate redactions 
pursuant to the Act. 
Sexually Explicit Materials. This production contains sexually explicit videos and 
images recovered from Epstein's electronic devices pursuant to a search warrant. The Act 
requires public release of these materials. To comply with the Act while also protecting the 
identities of female victims or possible victims, females portrayed in the pornographic videos 
and images have been redacted. Even videos that appear to be commercial pornography have 
been released in redacted form as part of this production because the Department could not 
confirm that the individuals in these videos were not victims. As a result, today's production 
includes redacted sexually explicit materials, requiring anyone entering the Epstein library to 
verify that they are over the age of 18. 
Conclusion 
Today's release marks the end of a comprehensive document identification and review 
process to ensure transparency to the American people and compliance with the Act. The 
Department has engaged in an unprecedented and extensive effort to do so. After submitting the 
formal report to Congress required under the Act and publishing the written justifications in the 
Federal Register, the Department's obligations under the Act will be completed. 
Sincerely, 
PAMELA J. BONDI 
United States Attorney General 
Tl>DD BLANCHE 
Deputy United States Attorney General 
United States Department of Justice 
Page 6 of6 