U.S. Department of Justice 
Office of the Deputy Attorney General 
The Deputy Anomey General Ufi.1hington, D.C. 20530 
December 19, 2025 
Members of Congress: 
I write to notify you that today the Department of Justice is producing hundreds of 
thousands of pages of respon_sive materials in compliance with the Epstein Files Transparency 
Act (the Act). Under the leadership of President Donald J. Trump and Attorney General Pam 
Bondi, this unprecedented disclosure highlights our commitment to following the law, being 
transparent, and protecting victims. President Donald J. Trump signed the Act into law on 
November 19, 2025. In compliance with the Act, the Department of Justice-at the direction of 
the Attorney General-has been working to ensure that all responsive materials have been 
identified, collected, uploaded, reviewed, and publicly produced within 30 days as required 
under the Act. See Sec. 2(a). 
This letter will summarize the Department's historic efforts and disclose specific details 
regarding the review and production process. Never in American history has a President or the 
Department of Justice been this transparent with the American people about such a sensitive law 
enforcement matter. Democrat administrations in the past have refused to provide full details of 
the Jeffrey Epstein saga . But President Trump, Attorney General Bondi, and FBI Director Patel 
are committed to providing full transparency consistent with the law. 
As part ofthe collection and review process, the Department is continuing to review 
additional documents and other items for potential responsiveness. Just this week one of the 
Department's components provided additional victim information requiring updated review of 
materials, and in the last few weeks multiple courts have granted the Department's unsealing 
motions, requiring detailed review ofthousands of pages of investigative and grand jury 
material. Several components have just provided documents this week. Because of the volume 
of the material and the requirement that every page of every document be reviewed for potential 
redactions under the Act, final stages of review of some material continue. A district court judge 
in the Southern District of New York separately imposed additional requirements on the United 
States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, adding additional layers of review to 
minimize the risk of inadvertent production of protected victim information. I anticipate this 
ongoing review being completed over the next two weeks. 
The Review Process 
Today, the Department is producing hundreds of thousands ofpages of documents 
responsive to the Act. This disclosure highlights President Trump's, Attorney General Bondi 's, 
and Director Patel's absolute commitment to transparency consistent with the law. Prior to the 
Page 1 of6 passage of the Act, the Department conducted a thorough review, including digital searches of 
databases, hard drives, and network drives as well as searches ofreal and personal properties. As 
noted in the July 6 Memorandum, this review did not reveal credible evidence that Epstein 
blackmailed prominent individuals, nor did it uncover evidence that could predicate an 
investigation against uncharged third parties. Because of various protective orders, grand jury 
secrecy laws, and Department practice, limited additional materials have been provided prior to 
this production. Recently, in addition to the Act being signed by President Trump, judges in the 
Southern District of Florida and the Southern District of New York authorized the Department to 
produce materials previously prohibited from production by protective orders and grand jury 
secrecy laws. 
After the Act became effective, the Department prepared a Review Protocol for its 
attorneys to use while reviewing materials to determine whether an item is responsive under the 
Act and, if so, whether any information contained in those materials required redactions or 
withholding as allowed under the Act and other applicable law. See Sec. 2( c )(1 ); see also 5 
U.S.C. § 552a (the Privacy Act of 1974). 
The Review Protocol is consistent with the Act and instructed attorneys to redact or 
withhold material that (1) contained personally identifiable information of victims; (2) depicted 
or contained child sexual abuse materials (CSAM) as defined under 18 U.S.C. § 2256 and 
prohibited under 18 U.S.C. §§ 2252- 2252A; (3) would jeopardize an active investigation or 
prosecution; ( 4) depicted images of death, physical abuse, or injury; and/or (5) properly 
classified national defense or foreign policy information. See Sec. 2(c)(l)(A)-(E). The Review 
Protocol is being produced as part of the Department's response under the Act and is attached to 
this letter. 
In addition to the bases for withholding or redacting under the Act, the Department has 
withheld and redacted a limited amount of information otherwise covered by various privileges, 
including deliberative-process privilege, work-product privilege, and attorney-client privilege. 
These privileges are based in common law-not statutes- and Congress is fully aware of them. 
See Fed. R. Evid. 50I; Trammel v. United States, 445 U.S. 40, 4 7 (1980) (''In ... enacting Rule 
501, Congress manifested an affirmative intention not to freeze the law of privilege."). It is a 
long-held principle that Congress speaks clearly when it intends to abrogate a common law 
principle or privilege. See Bassett v. United States, 137 U.S. 496, 505- 06 (1890) c·[B]efore any 
departure from the rule affirmed through the ages of the common law-a rule having its solid 
foundation in the best interests of society- can be adjudged , the language declaring the 
legislative will should be so clear as to prevent doubt as to its intent and limit."). 
Although the Act broadly categorizes items required to be produced, the Act does not 
include language expressly requiring the Department to produce privileged materials. See Sec. 
2(a); Oklahoma v. Castro-Hu erta, 597 U.S. 629, 642 (2022) (''Congress expresses its intentions 
Page 2 of 6 through statutory text passed by both Houses and signed by the President."). A privilege log will 
be produced in due course as required under the Act. 
Protecting victims is of the highest priority for President Trump, the Attorney General, 
the Federal Bureau oflnvestigation, and the Department of Justice. As part of the review and 
production, the Department solicited counsel for any victims of Jeffrey Epstein and invited 
counsel to provide us with names of victims, whether previously identified or not. This process 
resulted in over 1,200 names being identified as victims or their relatives. The Department has 
redacted reference to such names. In addition to redacting the names ofthese victims, the 
Department has also redacted and is not producing any materials that could result in their 
identification. 
The materials on the Department's website include those identified as responsive under 
the Act. Documents with Bates numbers ''EFTA" followed by 8 digits are those identified during 
the process described herein after the Act's enactment. If a Bates number is missing from this 
category of documents means that the Department recently identified that missing document as 
containing information that the Act requires to be withheld or redacted . An updated version of 
that document with the victim or other information under the Act redacted will be uploaded to 
the website expeditiously . In addition, the website contains materials that the Department had in 
its possession that were previously available publicly. This second category of documents do not 
contain Bates numbers. 
To ensure that all potentially responsive materials were identified, collected, and 
reviewed, the Department instructed all components with potentially responsive materials to 
produce those materials to the Justice Management Division (JMD). JMD, which serves as the 
management arm of the Department as well as Department's Chieflnformation Office, then 
uploaded materials it received onto a discovery platform so that attorneys could review for 
responsiveness and mark appropriate information for redactions as required under the Act. 
Materials that could not be uploaded onto the discovery platform because of its size or other 
compatibility issues were reviewed and redacted in their native format. 
Potentially responsive materials were identified and collected from Main Justice, Federal 
Bureau oflnvestigation (FBI), Bureau of Prisons (BOP), Office of the Inspector General (OIG), 
Executive Office for United States Attorneys (EOUSA) , the United States Attorney's Office for 
the Southern District of New York (USAO-SDNY) , and the United States Attorney 's Office for 
the Southern District of Florida (USAO-SDFL). 
To ensure the maximum compliance possible under the Act in a 30-day window, JMD 
had its employees working on ingesting and uploading the voluminous materials so that 
Department attorneys could conduct their review on the discovery platform. 
In collecting and providing materials to JMD to ingest and upload for attorney review, 
Department components erred on the side of over-collecting materials to ensure full transparen cy 
Page 3 of6 in compliance with the Act. As a result of these broad collections, the vast majority of the items 
that components provided to JMD were non-responsive under the Act. 
The review team consisted of more than 200 Department attorneys working to determine 
whether materials were responsive under the Act and. if so, whether redactions or withholding 
was required. The review had multiple levels. First, 187 attorneys from the Department's 
National Security Division (NSD) conducted a review of all items produced to JMD for 
responsiveness and any redactions under the Act. Second , a quality-control team of 25 attorneys 
conducted a second-level review to ensure that victim personally identifying information was 
properly redacted and that materials that should not be redacted were not marked for redaction. 
The second-level review team consisted of attorneys from the Department's Office of Privacy 
and Civil Liberties (OPCL) and Office oflnformation Policy (OIP)-these attorneys are experts 
in privacy rights and reviewing large volumes of discovery. After the second-level review team 
completed its quality review, responsive materials were uploaded onto the website for public 
production as required under the Act. See Sec. 2(a). Finally, Assistant United States Attorneys 
from the Southern District of 1-,;ew York reviewed the responsive materials to confirm appropriate 
redactions so that the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York could certify 
that victim identifying information was appropriately protected. 
Consistent with the Act, the Department attorneys reviewed all materials produced by its 
components for responsiveness. Specifically, the Department attorneys reviewed and marked as 
responsive "all unclassified records, documents, communications, and investigative materials ... 
that relate to: (1) Jeffrey Epstein including all investigations, prosecutions, or custodial matters; 
(2) Ghislaine Maxwell; (3) flight logs or travel records ... for any aircraft, vessel, or vehicle 
owned , operated, or used by Jeffrey Epstein or any related entity; (4) individuals, including 
government officials, named or referenced in connection with Epstein's criminal activities, civil 
settlements, immunity or plea agreements, or investigatory proceedings; (5) entities ... with 
known or alleged ties to Epstein's trafficking or financial networks; (6) any immunity deals, non­
prosecution agreements, plea bargains, or sealed settlements involving Epstein or his associates; 
(7); internal DOJ communications , including emails, memos, meeting notes, concerning 
decisions to charge, not charge, investigate, or decline to investigate Epstein or his associates; (8) 
all communications, memoranda , directives, logs, or metadata concerning the destruction, 
deletion, alteration, misplacement , or concealment of documents, recordings , or electronic data 
related to Epstein, his associates, his detention and death, or any investigative files; [and] (9) 
documentation of Epstein's detention or death, including incident reports, witness interviews, 
medical examiner files, autopsy reports, and written records detailing the circumstances and 
cause of death." 
Consistent with the Act, the Department will provide an explanation for any redacted and 
withheld materials as part of this production. See Sec. 2(c)(2). 
Today's Production 
Page 4 of6 The production includes portions of the FBI New York investigative file for the 2018 
Epstein criminal case for child sex trafficking and 2019 Maxwell criminal case; the FBI Miami 
investigative file for the 2006 Epstein criminal case for child prostitution; the FBI Miami 
investigative file for the 2009 Alfredo Rodriguez criminal case for obstruction ofjustice; the FBI 
New York investigative file for the 2019 Epstein death investigation; the FBI New York 
investigative file for a threat made against one of Epstein ·s victims; investigative materials 
underlying OIG's June 2023 report into Epstein's death; BOP materials related to Epstein's 
custody at Metropolitan Correctional Center New York (MCC New York), including visitor 
logbooks, commissary records, and count slips; grand-jury materials from the SDNY Epstein 
criminal case, SDNY Maxwell criminal case, and SDFL Epstein criminal case; court records 
from civil and criminal cases involving Epstein , Maxwell , and the Epstein estate; and materials 
produced by the DOJ in various cases brought under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA). 
All produced materials will be available at justice.gov /epstein. 
The materials produced today are in addition to those previously produced by this 
Department of Justice, including the following: 
• On July 6, 2025, the Department released over 20 hours of video footage showing 
the outer cell area of the night Epstein committed suicide. 
• On August 22, 2025, the Department released over 500 transcript pages and 6 hours 
of audio recordings of the Deputy Attorney General's interview of Ghislaine 
Maxwell. 
• On August 22, 2025, the Department produced to Congress over 33,000 pages of 
documents responsive to a subpoena requesting documents related to the Epstein and 
Maxwell cases. 
Conclusion 
This Department's commitment to transparency and compliance with the law has been 
historic. Even before the Act's passage, never before has there been a Department-wide effort to 
provide this level of transparency for a criminal case that ended less than 7 years earlier. The 
Attorney General is grateful to the Department a ttorneys, staff, and employees who worked long 
hours to ensure that the Department complied with the Act. 
The Act requires the Department to publicly produce all responsive materials within 30 
days of its enactment. See Sec. 2(a). The Department has worked diligently to meet the Act's 
deadline. But the volume of materials to be reviewed- many of which continue to be produced 
to JMD-means that the Department must publicly produce responsive documents on a rolling 
basis. The Department's need to perform rolling productions is consistent with well-settled 
caselaw that statutes should be interpreted to not require the impossible. See Anniston Mfg. Co. v. 
Davis, 301 U.S. 337,350 (1937); see also McNeil v. Time Ins. Co. , 205 F.3d 179 , 187 (5th Cir. 
2000) ("It is a flawed and unreasonable construction of any statute to read it in a manner that 
demands the impossible.' '). 
Page 5 of6 Similarly, in response to court orders granting motions to unseal grand-jury materials and 
materials covered by protective orders, USAO-SDNY produced 3.6 million records to the 
Department. Many of these materials are duplicative of materials previously produced to the 
Department by the FBI. Department attorneys continue to review these large productions from 
USAO-SDNY to confirm their duplicity. Moreover, the United States Attorney for the Southern 
District of New York was given access to today's production to allow him to make appropriate 
certifications as directed by a judge in the Southern District of New York. Any non-duplicated , 
responsive materials will be produced forthwith. 
The Department will continue to follow the Review Protocol and add to the public 
website materials that are responsive under the Act, and the Department will inform Congress 
when that review and production are complete by the end of this year. The Department's 
commitment to transparency, following the law, and protecting all victims under the leadership of 
President Trump, Attorney General Bondi, and FBI Director Patel will never waver. 
Sincerely, 
&✓ &- -
I 
Todd Blanche 
Deputy Attorney General 
Page 6 of6 