289 
Department of Justice Pt. 16 
PART 16—PRODUCTION OR DIS-
CLOSURE OF MATERIAL OR IN-
FORMATION 
Subpart A—Procedures for Disclosure of 
Records Under the Freedom of Infor-
mation Act 
Sec. 
16.1 General provisions. 
16.2 Proactive disclosure of Department 
records. 
16.3 Requirements for making requests. 
16.4 Responsibility for responding to re-
quests. 
16.5 Timing of responses to requests. 
16.6 Responses to requests. 
16.7 Confidential commercial information. 
16.8 Administrative appeals. 
16.9 Preservation of records. 
16.10 Fees. 
16.11 Other rights and services. 
Subpart B—Production or Disclosure in 
Federal and State Proceedings 
16.21 Purpose and scope. 
16.22 General prohibition of production or 
disclosure in Federal and State pro-
ceedings in which the United States is 
not a party. 
16.23 General disclosure authority in Fed-
eral and State proceedings in which the 
United States is a party. 
16.24 Procedure in the event of a demand 
where disclosure is not otherwise author-
ized. 
16.25 Final action by the Deputy or Asso-
ciate Attorney General. 
16.26 Considerations in determining wheth-
er production or disclosure should be 
made pursuant to a demand. 
16.27 Procedure in the event a department 
decision concerning a demand is not 
made prior to the time a response to the 
demand is required. 
16.28 Procedure in the event of an adverse 
ruling. 
16.29 Delegation by Assistant Attorneys 
General. 
A
PPENDIX TO SUBPART B OF PART 16—R E-
DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY TO THE DEPUTY 
ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR LITI-
GATION, ANTITRUST DIVISION, TO AUTHOR-
IZE PRODUCTION OR DISCLOSURE OF MATE-
RIAL OR INFORMATION 
Subpart C—Production of FBI Identification 
Records in Response to Written Re-
quests by Subjects Thereof 
16.30 Purpose and scope. 
16.31 Definition of identification record. 
16.32 Procedure to obtain an identification 
record. 
16.33 Fee for production of identification 
record. 
16.34 Procedure to obtain change, correc-
tion or updating of identification 
records. 
Subpart D—Access to and Amendment of 
Individual Records Pursuant to the Pri-
vacy Act of 1974, and Other Privacy 
Protections 
16.40 General provisions. 
16.41 Privacy Act requests for access to 
records. 
16.42 Responsibility for responding to Pri-
vacy Act requests for access to records. 
16.43 Responses to Privacy Act requests for 
access to records. 
16.44 Classified information. 
16.45 Privacy Act access appeals. 
16.46 Privacy Act requests for amendment 
or correction. 
16.47 Privacy Act requests for an account-
ing of record disclosures. 
16.48 Preservation of records. 
16.49 Fees. 
16.50 Notice of compulsory legal process and 
emergency disclosures. 
16.51 Security of systems of records. 
16.52 Contracts for the operation of record 
systems. 
16.53 Use and collection of Social Security 
account numbers. 
16.54 Employee standards of conduct. 
16.55 Other rights and services. 
Subpart E—Exemption of Records Systems 
Under the Privacy Act 
16.70 Exemption of the Office of the Attor-
ney General System—limited access. 
16.71 Exemption of the Office of the Deputy 
Attorney General System—limited ac-
cess. 
16.72 Exemption of Office of the Associate 
Attorney General System—limited ac-
cess. 
16.73 Exemption of Office of Legal Policy 
Systems. 
16.74 Exemption of National Security Divi-
sion Systems—limited access. 
16.75 Exemption of the Office of the Inspec-
tor General Systems/Limited Access. 
16.76 Exemption of Justice Management Di-
vision. 
16.77 Exemption of U.S. Trustee Program 
System—limited access. 
16.78 Exemption of the Special Counsel for 
Immigration-Related, Unfair Employ-
ment Practices Systems. 
16.79 Exemption of Pardon Attorney Sys-
tem. 
16.80 Exemption of Office of Professional 
Responsibility System—limited access. 
16.81 Exemption of United States Attorneys 
Systems—limited access. 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00299 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR290 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.1 
16.82 Exemption of the National Drug Intel-
ligence Center Data Base—limited ac-
cess. 
16.83 Exemption of the Executive Office for 
Immigration Review System—limited ac-
cess. 
16.84 Exemption of Immigration Appeals 
System. 
16.85 Exemption of U.S. Parole Commis-
sion—limited access. 
16.88 Exemption of Antitrust Division Sys-
tems—limited access. 
16.89 Exemption of Civil Division Systems— 
limited access. 
16.90 Exemption of Civil Rights Division 
Systems. 
16.91 Exemption of Criminal Division Sys-
tems—limited access, as indicated. 
16.92 Exemption of Environment and Nat-
ural Resources Division Systems—lim-
ited access. 
16.93 Exemption of Tax Division Systems— 
limited access. 
16.96 Exemption of Federal Bureau of Inves-
tigation Systems—limited access. 
16.97 Exemption of Bureau of Prisons Sys-
tems—limited access. 
16.98 Exemption of the Drug Enforcement 
Administration (DEA) Systems—limited 
access. 
16.99 Exemption of the Immigration and 
Naturalization Service Systems-limited 
access. 
16.100 Exemption of Office of Justice Pro-
grams—limited access. 
16.101 Exemption of U.S. Marshals Service 
Systems—limited access, as indicated. 
16.102 Exemption of Drug Enforcement Ad-
ministration and Immigration and Natu-
ralization Service Joint System of 
Records. 
16.103 Exemption of the INTERPOL-United 
States National Central Bureau 
(INTERPOL-USNCB) System. 
16.104 Exemption of Office of Special Coun-
sel—Waco System. 
16.105 Exemption of Foreign Terrorist 
Tracking Task Force System. 
16.106 Exemption of the Bureau of Alcohol, 
Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives 
(ATF)—Limited Access. 
16.130 Exemption of Department of Justice 
Systems: Correspondence Management 
Systems for the Department of Justice 
(DOJ-003); Freedom of Information Act, 
Privacy Act and Mandatory Declassifica-
tion Review Requests and Administra-
tive Appeals for the Department of Jus-
tice (DOJ-004). 
16.131 Exemption of Department of Justice 
(DOJ)/Nationwide Joint Automated 
Booking System (JABS), DOJ-005. 
16.132 Exemption of Department of Justice 
System—Personnel Investigation and Se-
curity Clearance Records for the Depart-
ment of Justice (DOJ), DOJ-006. 
16.133 Exemption of Department of Justice 
Regional Data Exchange System 
(RDEX), DOJ–012. 
16.134 Exemption of Debt Collection En-
forcement System, Justice/DOJ–016. 
16.135 Exemptions of Executive Office for 
Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task 
Forces Systems. 
16.136 Exemptions of the Department of 
Justice, Giglio Information System, Jus-
tice/DOJ–017. 
16.137 Exemption of the Department of Jus-
tice Insider Threat Program Records— 
limited access. 
16.138 Exemption of the Department of Jus-
tice Information Technology, Informa-
tion System, and Network Activity and 
Access Records, JUSTICE/DOJ–002. 
16.139 Exemption of the Department of Jus-
tice Data Protection Review Court 
Records System, JUSTICE/OPCL–001. 
Subpart F—Public Observation of Parole 
Commission Meetings 
16.200 Definitions. 
16.201 Voting by the Commissioners without 
joint deliberation. 
16.202 Open meetings. 
16.203 Closed meetings—Formal procedure. 
16.204 Public notice. 
16.205 Closed meetings—Informal proce-
dures. 
16.206 Transcripts, minutes, and miscella-
neous documents concerning Commission 
meetings. 
16.207 Public access to nonexempt tran-
scripts and minutes of closed Commis-
sion meetings—Documents used at meet-
ings—Record retention. 
16.208 Annual report. 
Subpart G—Access to Documents by 
Former Employees of the Department 
16.300 Access to documents for the purpose 
of responding to an official inquiry. 
16.301 Limitations. 
APPENDIX I TO PART 16—C OMPONENTS OF THE  
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE 
AUTHORITY: 5 U.S.C. 301, 552, 552a, 553; 28 
U.S.C. 509, 510, 534; 31 U.S.C. 3717; 42 U.S.C. 
405. 
Subpart A—Procedures for Disclo-
sure of Records Under the 
Freedom of Information Act 
SOURCE: AG Order No. 3517–2015, 80 FR 
18106, Apr. 3, 2015, unless otherwise noted. 
§ 16.1 General provisions. 
(a) This subpart contains the rules 
that the Department of Justice follows 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00300 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR291 
Department of Justice § 16.3 
in processing requests for records 
under the Freedom of Information Act 
(‘‘FOIA’’), 5 U.S.C. 552. The rules in this 
subpart should be read in conjunction 
with the text of the FOIA and the Uni-
form Freedom of Information Fee 
Schedule and Guidelines published by 
the Office of Management and Budget 
(‘‘OMB Guidelines’’). Additionally, the 
Department’s ‘‘FOIA Reference Guide’’ 
and its attachments contain informa-
tion about the specific procedures par-
ticular to the Department with respect 
to making FOIA requests and descrip-
tions of the types of records main-
tained by different Department compo-
nents. This resource is available at 
http://www.justice.gov/oip/04_3.html. Re-
quests made by individuals for records 
about themselves under the Privacy 
Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, are processed 
under subpart D of part 16 as well as 
under this subpart. 
(b) As referenced in this subpart, 
component means each separate bu-
reau, office, division, commission, serv-
ice, center, or administration that is 
designated by the Department as a pri-
mary organizational entity. 
(c) The Department has a decentral-
ized system for processing requests, 
with each component handling requests 
for its records. 
[AG Order No. 3517–2015, 80 FR 18106, Apr. 3, 
2015, as amended by AG Order 3803–2016, 82 
FR 727, Jan. 4, 2017] 
§ 16.2 Proactive disclosure of Depart-
ment records. 
Records that are required by the 
FOIA to be made available for public 
inspection in an electronic format may 
be accessed through the Department’s 
Web site at http://justice.gov/oip/ 
04_2.html. Each component is respon-
sible for determining which of its 
records are required to be made pub-
licly available, as well as identifying 
additional records of interest to the 
public that are appropriate for public 
disclosure, and for posting and index-
ing such records. Each component shall 
ensure that its Web site of posted 
records and indices is reviewed and up-
dated on an ongoing basis. Each com-
ponent has a FOIA Public Liaison who 
can assist individuals in locating 
records particular to a component. A 
list of the Department’s FOIA Public 
Liaisons is available at http:// 
www.justice.gov/oip/foiacontact/index- 
list.html. 
[AG Order No. 3517–2015, 80 FR 18106, Apr. 3, 
2015, as amended by AG Order 3803–2016, 82 
FR 727, Jan. 4, 2017] 
§ 16.3 Requirements for making re-
quests. 
(a) General information. (1) The De-
partment has a decentralized system 
for responding to FOIA requests, with 
each component designating a FOIA of-
fice to process records from that com-
ponent. All components have the capa-
bility to receive requests electronically 
either through email or a web portal. 
To make a request for records of the 
Department, a requester should write 
directly to the FOIA office of the com-
ponent that maintains the records 
being sought. A request will receive the 
quickest possible response if it is ad-
dressed to the FOIA office of the com-
ponent that maintains the records 
sought. The Department’s FOIA Ref-
erence Guide, which may be accessed as 
described in § 16.1(a), contains descrip-
tions of the functions of each compo-
nent and provides other information 
that is helpful in determining where to 
make a request. Each component’s 
FOIA office and any additional require-
ments for submitting a request to a 
given component are listed in Appendix 
I to this part. Part 0 of this chapter 
also summarizes the functions of each 
component. These references can all be 
used by requesters to determine where 
to send their requests within the De-
partment. 
(2) A requester may also send re-
quests to the FOIA/PA Mail Referral 
Unit, Justice Management Division, 
Department of Justice, 950 Pennsyl-
vania Avenue NW., Washington, DC 
20530–0001, or via email to 
MRUFOIA.Requests@usdoj.gov, or via 
fax to (202) 616–6695. The Mail Referral 
Unit will forward the request to the 
component(s) that it determines to be 
most likely to maintain the records 
that are sought. 
(3) A requester who is making a re-
quest for records about himself or her-
self must comply with the verification 
of identity provision set forth in sub-
part D of this part. 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00301 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR292 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.4 
(4) Where a request for records per-
tains to a third party, a requester may 
receive greater access by submitting 
either a notarized authorization signed 
by that individual or a declaration 
made in compliance with the require-
ments set forth in 28 U.S.C. 1746 by 
that individual authorizing disclosure 
of the records to the requester, or by 
submitting proof that the individual is 
deceased (e.g., a copy of a death certifi-
cate or an obituary). As an exercise of 
administrative discretion, each compo-
nent can require a requester to supply 
additional information if necessary in 
order to verify that a particular indi-
vidual has consented to disclosure. 
(b) Description of records sought. Re-
questers must describe the records 
sought in sufficient detail to enable 
Department personnel to locate them 
with a reasonable amount of effort. To 
the extent possible, requesters should 
include specific information that may 
assist a component in identifying the 
requested records, such as the date, 
title or name, author, recipient, sub-
ject matter of the record, case number, 
file designation, or reference number. 
Requesters should refer to Appendix I 
to this part for additional, component- 
specific requirements. In general, re-
questers should include as much detail 
as possible about the specific records or 
the types of records that they are seek-
ing. Before submitting their requests, 
requesters may contact the compo-
nent’s FOIA contact or FOIA Public 
Liaison to discuss the records they are 
seeking and to receive assistance in de-
scribing the records. If after receiving 
a request a component determines that 
it does not reasonably describe the 
records sought, the component shall in-
form the requester what additional in-
formation is needed or why the request 
is otherwise insufficient. Requesters 
who are attempting to reformulate or 
modify such a request may discuss 
their request with the component’s 
designated FOIA contact, its FOIA 
Public Liaison, or a representative of 
the Office of Information Policy 
(‘‘OIP’’), each of whom is available to 
assist the requester in reasonably de-
scribing the records sought. If a re-
quest does not reasonably describe the 
records sought, the agency’s response 
to the request may be delayed. 
§ 16.4 Responsibility for responding to 
requests. 
(a) In general. Except in the instances 
described in paragraphs (c) and (d) of 
this section, the component that first 
receives a request for a record and 
maintains that record is the compo-
nent responsible for responding to the 
request. In determining which records 
are responsive to a request, a compo-
nent ordinarily will include only 
records in its possession as of the date 
that it begins its search. If any other 
date is used, the component shall in-
form the requester of that date. A 
record that is excluded from the re-
quirements of the FOIA pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552(c), is not considered respon-
sive to a request. 
(b) Authority to grant or deny requests. 
The head of a component, or designee, 
is authorized to grant or to deny any 
requests for records that are main-
tained by that component. 
(c) Re-routing of misdirected requests. 
Where a component’s FOIA office de-
termines that a request was mis-
directed within the Department, the 
receiving component’s FOIA office 
shall route the request to the FOIA of-
fice of the proper component(s). 
(d) Consultation, referral, and coordi-
nation. When reviewing records located 
by a component in response to a re-
quest, the component shall determine 
whether another component or another 
agency of the Federal Government is 
better able to determine whether the 
record is exempt from disclosure under 
the FOIA. As to any such record, the 
component shall proceed in one of the 
following ways: 
(1) Consultation. When records origi-
nated with the component processing 
the request, but contain within them 
information of interest to another 
component, agency, or other Federal 
Government office, the component 
processing the request should typically 
consult with that other component or 
agency prior to making a release deter-
mination. 
(2) Referral. (i) When the component 
processing the request believes that a 
different component, agency, or other 
Federal Government office is best able 
to determine whether to disclose the 
record, the component typically should 
refer the responsibility for responding 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00302 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR293 
Department of Justice § 16.5 
to the request regarding that record, as 
long as the referral is to a component 
or agency that is subject to the FOIA. 
Ordinarily, the component or agency 
that originated the record will be pre-
sumed to be best able to make the dis-
closure determination. However, if the 
component processing the request and 
the originating component or agency 
jointly agree that the former is in the 
best position to respond regarding the 
record, then the record may be handled 
as a consultation. 
(ii) Whenever a component refers any 
part of the responsibility for respond-
ing to a request to another component 
or agency, it shall document the refer-
ral, maintain a copy of the record that 
it refers, and notify the requester of 
the referral and inform the requester of 
the name(s) of the component or agen-
cy to which the record was referred, in-
cluding that component’s or agency’s 
FOIA contact information, 
(3) Coordination. The standard refer-
ral procedure is not appropriate where 
disclosure of the identity of the compo-
nent or agency to which the referral 
would be made could harm an interest 
protected by an applicable exemption, 
such as the exemptions that protect 
personal privacy or national security 
interests. For example, if a non-law en-
forcement component responding to a 
request for records on a living third 
party locates within its files records 
originating with a law enforcement 
agency, and if the existence of that law 
enforcement interest in the third party 
was not publicly known, then to dis-
close that law enforcement interest 
could cause an unwarranted invasion of 
the personal privacy of the third party. 
Similarly, if a component locates with-
in its files material originating with an 
Intelligence Community agency, and 
the involvement of that agency in the 
matter is classified and not publicly 
acknowledged, then to disclose or give 
attribution to the involvement of that 
Intelligence Community agency could 
cause national security harms. In such 
instances, in order to avoid harm to an 
interest protected by an applicable ex-
emption, the component that received 
the request should coordinate with the 
originating component or agency to 
seek its views on the disclosability of 
the record. The release determination 
for the record that is the subject of the 
coordination should then be conveyed 
to the requester by the component that 
originally received the request. 
(e) Classified information. On receipt 
of any request involving classified in-
formation, the component shall deter-
mine whether the information is cur-
rently and properly classified and take 
appropriate action to ensure compli-
ance with part 17 of this title. When-
ever a request involves a record con-
taining information that has been clas-
sified or may be appropriate for classi-
fication by another component or agen-
cy under any applicable executive 
order concerning the classification of 
records, the receiving component shall 
refer the responsibility for responding 
to the request regarding that informa-
tion to the component or agency that 
classified the information, or that 
should consider the information for 
classification. Whenever a component’s 
record contains information that has 
been derivatively classified (for exam-
ple, when it contains information clas-
sified by another component or agen-
cy), the component shall refer the re-
sponsibility for responding to that por-
tion of the request to the component or 
agency that classified the underlying 
information. 
(f) Timing of responses to consultations 
and referrals. All consultations and re-
ferrals received by the Department will 
be handled according to the date that 
the FOIA request initially was received 
by the first component or agency. 
(g) Agreements regarding consultations 
and referrals. Components may estab-
lish agreements with other components 
or agencies to eliminate the need for 
consultations or referrals with respect 
to particular types of records. 
[AG Order No. 3517–2015, 80 FR 18106, Apr. 3, 
2015, as amended by AG Order 3803–2016, 82 
FR 727, Jan. 4, 2017] 
§ 16.5 Timing of responses to requests. 
(a) In general. Components ordinarily 
will respond to requests according to 
their order of receipt. Appendix I to 
this part contains the list of the De-
partment components that are des-
ignated to accept requests. In instances 
involving misdirected requests that are 
re-routed pursuant to § 16.4(c), the re-
sponse time will commence on the date 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00303 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR294 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.5 
that the request is received by the 
proper component’s office that is des-
ignated to receive requests, but in any 
event not later than 10 working days 
after the request is first received by 
any component’s office that is des-
ignated by these regulations to receive 
requests. 
(b) Multitrack processing. All compo-
nents must designate a specific track 
for requests that are granted expedited 
processing, in accordance with the 
standards set forth in paragraph (e) of 
this section. A component may also 
designate additional processing tracks 
that distinguish between simple and 
more complex requests based on the es-
timated amount of work or time need-
ed to process the request. Among the 
factors a component may consider are 
the number of pages involved in proc-
essing the request and the need for con-
sultations or referrals. Components 
shall advise requesters of the track 
into which their request falls and, 
when appropriate, shall offer the re-
questers an opportunity to narrow 
their request so that it can be placed in 
a different processing track. 
(c) Unusual circumstances. Whenever 
the statutory time limit for processing 
a request cannot be met because of 
‘‘unusual circumstances,’’ as defined in 
the FOIA, and the component extends 
the time limit on that basis, the com-
ponent shall, before expiration of the 
20-day period to respond, notify the re-
quester in writing of the unusual cir-
cumstances involved and of the date by 
which processing of the request can be 
expected to be completed. Where the 
extension exceeds 10 working days, the 
component shall, as described by the 
FOIA, provide the requester with an 
opportunity to modify the request or 
arrange an alternative time period for 
processing. The component shall make 
available its designated FOIA contact 
and its FOIA Public Liaison for this 
purpose. The component must also 
alert requesters to the availability of 
the Office of Government Information 
Services to provide dispute resolution 
services. 
(d) Aggregating requests. For the pur-
poses of satisfying unusual cir-
cumstances under the FOIA, compo-
nents may aggregate requests in cases 
where it reasonably appears that mul-
tiple requests, submitted either by a 
requester or by a group of requesters 
acting in concert, constitute a single 
request that would otherwise involve 
unusual circumstances. Components 
shall not aggregate multiple requests 
that involve unrelated matters. 
(e) Expedited processing. (1) Requests 
and appeals shall be processed on an 
expedited basis whenever it is deter-
mined that they involve: 
(i) Circumstances in which the lack 
of expedited processing could reason-
ably be expected to pose an imminent 
threat to the life or physical safety of 
an individual; 
(ii) An urgency to inform the public 
about an actual or alleged Federal Gov-
ernment activity, if made by a person 
who is primarily engaged in dissemi-
nating information; 
(iii) The loss of substantial due proc-
ess rights; or 
(iv) A matter of widespread and ex-
ceptional media interest in which there 
exist possible questions about the gov-
ernment’s integrity that affect public 
confidence. 
(2) A request for expedited processing 
may be made at any time. Requests 
based on paragraphs (e)(1)(i), (ii), and 
(iii) of this section must be submitted 
to the component that maintains the 
records requested. When making a re-
quest for expedited processing of an ad-
ministrative appeal, the request should 
be submitted to OIP. Requests for expe-
dited processing that are based on 
paragraph (e)(1)(iv) of this section 
must be submitted to the Director of 
Public Affairs at the Office of Public 
Affairs, Department of Justice, 950 
Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Wash-
ington, DC 20530–0001. A component 
that receives a misdirected request for 
expedited processing under the stand-
ard set forth in paragraph (e)(1)(iv) of 
this section shall forward it imme-
diately to the Office of Public Affairs 
for its determination. The time period 
for making the determination on the 
request for expedited processing under 
paragraph (e)(1)(iv) of this section shall 
commence on the date that the Office 
of Public Affairs receives the request, 
provided that it is routed within 10 
working days. 
(3) A requester who seeks expedited 
processing must submit a statement, 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00304 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR295 
Department of Justice § 16.6 
certified to be true and correct, ex-
plaining in detail the basis for making 
the request for expedited processing. 
For example, under paragraph (e)(1)(ii) 
of this section, a requester who is not 
a full-time member of the news media 
must establish that the requester is a 
person whose primary professional ac-
tivity or occupation is information dis-
semination, though it need not be the 
requester’s sole occupation. Such a re-
quester also must establish a par-
ticular urgency to inform the public 
about the government activity in-
volved in the request—one that extends 
beyond the public’s right to know 
about government activity generally. 
The existence of numerous articles 
published on a given subject can be 
helpful in establishing the requirement 
that there be an ‘‘urgency to inform’’ 
the public on the topic. As a matter of 
administrative discretion, a component 
may waive the formal certification re-
quirement. 
(4) A component shall notify the re-
quester within 10 calendar days of the 
receipt of a request for expedited proc-
essing of its decision whether to grant 
or deny expedited processing. If expe-
dited processing is granted, the request 
shall be given priority, placed in the 
processing track for expedited re-
quests, and shall be processed as soon 
as practicable. If a request for expe-
dited processing is denied, any appeal 
of that decision shall be acted on expe-
ditiously. 
[AG Order No. 3517–2015, 80 FR 18106, Apr. 3, 
2015, as amended by AG Order 3803–2016, 82 
FR 727, Jan. 4, 2017] 
§ 16.6 Responses to requests. 
(a) In general. Components should, to 
the extent practicable, communicate 
with requesters having access to the 
Internet using electronic means, such 
as email or web portal. 
(b) Acknowledgments of requests. A 
component shall acknowledge the re-
quest and assign it an individualized 
tracking number if it will take longer 
than 10 working days to process. Com-
ponents shall include in the acknowl-
edgment a brief description of the 
records sought to allow requesters to 
more easily keep track of their re-
quests. 
(c) Grants of requests. Once a compo-
nent makes a determination to grant a 
request in full or in part, it shall notify 
the requester in writing. The compo-
nent also shall inform the requester of 
any fees charged under § 16.10 and shall 
disclose the requested records to the 
requester promptly upon payment of 
any applicable fees. The component 
must inform the requester of the avail-
ability of the FOIA Public Liaison to 
offer assistance. 
(d) Adverse determinations of requests. 
A component making an adverse deter-
mination denying a request in any re-
spect shall notify the requester of that 
determination in writing. Adverse de-
terminations, or denials of requests, in-
clude decisions that: the requested 
record is exempt, in whole or in part; 
the request does not reasonably de-
scribe the records sought; the informa-
tion requested is not a record subject 
to the FOIA; the requested record does 
not exist, cannot be located, or has 
been destroyed; or the requested record 
is not readily reproducible in the form 
or format sought by the requester. Ad-
verse determinations also include deni-
als involving fees or fee waiver matters 
or denials of requests for expedited 
processing. 
(e) Content of denial. The denial shall 
be signed by the head of the compo-
nent, or designee, and shall include: 
(1) The name and title or position of 
the person responsible for the denial; 
(2) A brief statement of the reasons 
for the denial, including any FOIA ex-
emption applied by the component in 
denying the request; 
(3) An estimate of the volume of any 
records or information withheld, such 
as the number of pages or some other 
reasonable form of estimation, al-
though such an estimate is not re-
quired if the volume is otherwise indi-
cated by deletions marked on records 
that are disclosed in part or if pro-
viding an estimate would harm an in-
terest protected by an applicable ex-
emption; and 
(4) A statement that the denial may 
be appealed under § 16.8(a), and a de-
scription of the requirements set forth 
therein. 
(5) A statement notifying the re-
quester of the assistance available 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00305 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR296 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.7 
from the component’s FOIA Public Li-
aison and the dispute resolution serv-
ices offered by the Office of Govern-
ment Information Services. 
(f) Markings on released documents. 
Markings on released documents must 
be clearly visible to the requester. 
Records disclosed in part shall be 
marked to show the amount of infor-
mation deleted and the exemption 
under which the deletion was made un-
less doing so would harm an interest 
protected by an applicable exemption. 
The location of the information deleted 
shall also be indicated on the record, if 
technically feasible. 
(g) Use of record exclusions. (1) In the 
event that a component identifies 
records that may be subject to exclu-
sion from the requirements of the 
FOIA pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(c), the 
component must confer with OIP to ob-
tain approval to apply the exclusion. 
(2) Any component invoking an ex-
clusion shall maintain an administra-
tive record of the process of invocation 
and approval of the exclusion by OIP. 
[AG Order No. 3517–2015, 80 FR 18106, Apr. 3, 
2015, as amended by AG Order 3803–2016, 82 
FR 727, Jan. 4, 2017] 
§ 16.7 Confidential commercial infor-
mation. 
(a) Definitions. (1) Confidential com-
mercial information means commercial 
or financial information obtained by 
the Department from a submitter that 
may be protected from disclosure under 
Exemption 4 of the FOIA, 5 U.S.C. 
552(b)(4). 
(2) Submitter means any person or en-
tity, including a corporation, State, or 
foreign government, but not including 
another Federal Government entity, 
that provides information, either di-
rectly or indirectly to the Federal Gov-
ernment. 
(b) Designation of confidential commer-
cial information. A submitter of con-
fidential commercial information must 
use good faith efforts to designate by 
appropriate markings, either at the 
time of submission or within a reason-
able time thereafter, any portion of its 
submission that it considers to be pro-
tected from disclosure under Exemp-
tion 4. These designations shall expire 
10 years after the date of the submis-
sion unless the submitter requests and 
provides justification for a longer des-
ignation period. 
(c) When notice to submitters is re-
quired. (1) A component shall promptly 
provide written notice to a submitter 
of confidential commercial information 
whenever records containing such in-
formation are requested under the 
FOIA if, after reviewing the request, 
the responsive records, and any appeal 
by the requester, the component deter-
mines that it may be required to dis-
close the records, provided: 
(i) The requested information has 
been designated in good faith by the 
submitter as information considered 
protected from disclosure under Ex-
emption 4; or 
(ii) The component has a reason to 
believe that the requested information 
may be protected from disclosure under 
Exemption 4, but has not yet deter-
mined whether the information is pro-
tected from disclosure under that ex-
emption or any other applicable ex-
emption. 
(2) The notice shall either describe 
the commercial information requested 
or include a copy of the requested 
records or portions of records con-
taining the information. In cases in-
volving a voluminous number of sub-
mitters, notice may be made by post-
ing or publishing the notice in a place 
or manner reasonably likely to accom-
plish it. 
(d) Exceptions to submitter notice re-
quirements. The notice requirements of 
this section shall not apply if: 
(1) The component determines that 
the information is exempt under the 
FOIA; 
(2) The information has been lawfully 
published or has been officially made 
available to the public; 
(3) Disclosure of the information is 
required by a statute other than the 
FOIA or by a regulation issued in ac-
cordance with the requirements of Ex-
ecutive Order 12600 of June 23, 1987; or 
(4) The designation made by the sub-
mitter under paragraph (b) of this sec-
tion appears obviously frivolous, ex-
cept that, in such a case, the compo-
nent shall give the submitter written 
notice of any final decision to disclose 
the information and must provide that 
notice within a reasonable number of 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00306 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR297 
Department of Justice § 16.8 
days prior to a specified disclosure 
date. 
(e) Opportunity to object to disclosure. 
(1) A component shall specify a reason-
able time period within which the sub-
mitter must respond to the notice ref-
erenced above. If a submitter has any 
objections to disclosure, it should pro-
vide the component a detailed written 
statement that specifies all grounds for 
withholding the particular information 
under any exemption of the FOIA. In 
order to rely on Exemption 4 as basis 
for nondisclosure, the submitter must 
explain why the information con-
stitutes a trade secret or commercial 
or financial information that is privi-
leged or confidential. 
(2) A submitter who fails to respond 
within the time period specified in the 
notice shall be considered to have no 
objection to disclosure of the informa-
tion. Information received by the com-
ponent after the date of any disclosure 
decision shall not be considered by the 
component. Any information provided 
by a submitter under this subpart may 
itself be subject to disclosure under the 
FOIA. 
(f) Analysis of objections. A component 
shall consider a submitter’s objections 
and specific grounds for nondisclosure 
in deciding whether to disclose the re-
quested information. 
(g) Notice of intent to disclose. When-
ever a component decides to disclose 
information over the objection of a 
submitter, the component shall provide 
the submitter written notice, which 
shall include: 
(1) A statement of the reasons why 
each of the submitter’s disclosure ob-
jections was not sustained; 
(2) A description of the information 
to be disclosed; and 
(3) A specified disclosure date, which 
shall be a reasonable time subsequent 
to the notice. 
(h) Notice of FOIA lawsuit. Whenever a 
requester files a lawsuit seeking to 
compel the disclosure of confidential 
commercial information, the compo-
nent shall promptly notify the sub-
mitter. 
(i) Requester notification. The compo-
nent shall notify a requester whenever 
it provides the submitter with notice 
and an opportunity to object to disclo-
sure; whenever it notifies the sub-
mitter of its intent to disclose the re-
quested information; and whenever a 
submitter files a lawsuit to prevent the 
disclosure of the information. 
§ 16.8 Administrative appeals. 
(a) Requirements for making an appeal. 
A requester may appeal any adverse de-
terminations to OIP. The contact in-
formation for OIP is contained in the 
FOIA Reference Guide, which is avail-
able at http://www.justice.gov/oip/ 
04_3.html. Appeals can be submitted 
through the web portal accessible on 
OIP’s Web site. Examples of adverse de-
terminations are provided in § 16.6(d). 
The requester must make the appeal in 
writing and to be considered timely it 
must be postmarked, or in the case of 
electronic submissions, transmitted, 
within 90 calendar days after the date 
of the response. The appeal should 
clearly identify the component’s deter-
mination that is being appealed and 
the assigned request number. To facili-
tate handling, the requester should 
mark both the appeal letter and enve-
lope, or subject line of the electronic 
transmission, ‘‘Freedom of Information 
Act Appeal.’’ 
(b) Adjudication of appeals. (1) The Di-
rector of OIP or designee will act on 
behalf of the Attorney General on all 
appeals under this section. 
(2) An appeal ordinarily will not be 
adjudicated if the request becomes a 
matter of FOIA litigation. 
(3) On receipt of any appeal involving 
classified information, OIP shall take 
appropriate action to ensure compli-
ance with part 17 of this title. 
(c) Decisions on appeals. A decision on 
an appeal must be made in writing. A 
decision that upholds a component’s 
determination will contain a statement 
that identifies the reasons for the af-
firmance, including any FOIA exemp-
tions applied. The decision will provide 
the requester with notification of the 
statutory right to file a lawsuit and 
will inform the requester of the medi-
ation services offered by the Office of 
Government Information Services of 
the National Archives and Records Ad-
ministration as a non-exclusive alter-
native to litigation. If a component’s 
decision is remanded or modified on ap-
peal, the requester will be notified of 
that determination in writing. The 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00307 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR298 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.9 
component will thereafter further proc-
ess the request in accordance with that 
appeal determination and respond di-
rectly to the requester. 
(d) Engaging in dispute resolution serv-
ices provided by OGIS. Mediation is a 
voluntary process. If a component 
agrees to participate in the mediation 
services provided by the Office of Gov-
ernment Information Services, it will 
actively engage as a partner to the 
process in an attempt to resolve the 
dispute. 
(e) When appeal is required. Before 
seeking review by a court of a compo-
nent’s adverse determination, a re-
quester generally must first submit a 
timely administrative appeal. 
[AG Order No. 3517–2015, 80 FR 18106, Apr. 3, 
2015, as amended by AG Order 3803–2016, 82 
FR 728, Jan. 4, 2017] 
§ 16.9 Preservation of records. 
Each component shall preserve all 
correspondence pertaining to the re-
quests that it receives under this sub-
part, as well as copies of all requested 
records, until disposition or destruc-
tion is authorized pursuant to title 44 
of the United States Code or the Gen-
eral Records Schedule 14 of the Na-
tional Archives and Records Adminis-
tration. Records shall not be disposed 
of or destroyed while they are the sub-
ject of a pending request, appeal, or 
lawsuit under the FOIA. 
§ 16.10 Fees. 
(a) In general. Components shall 
charge for processing requests under 
the FOIA in accordance with the provi-
sions of this section and with the OMB 
Guidelines. In order to resolve any fee 
issues that arise under this section, a 
component may contact a requester for 
additional information. Components 
shall ensure that searches, review, and 
duplication are conducted in the most 
efficient and the least expensive man-
ner. A component ordinarily will col-
lect all applicable fees before sending 
copies of records to a requester. Re-
questers must pay fees by check or 
money order made payable to the 
Treasury of the United States. 
(b) Definitions. For purposes of this 
section: 
(1) Commercial use request is a request 
that asks for information for a use or a 
purpose that furthers a commercial, 
trade, or profit interest, which can in-
clude furthering those interests 
through litigation. A component’s deci-
sion to place a requester in the com-
mercial use category will be made on a 
case-by-case basis based on the re-
quester’s intended use of the informa-
tion. 
(2) Direct costs are those expenses 
that an agency incurs in searching for 
and duplicating (and, in the case of 
commercial use requests, reviewing) 
records in order to respond to a FOIA 
request. For example, direct costs in-
clude the salary of the employee per-
forming the work (i.e., the basic rate of 
pay for the employee, plus 16 percent of 
that rate to cover benefits) and the 
cost of operating computers and other 
electronic equipment, such as photo-
copiers and scanners. Direct costs do 
not include overhead expenses such as 
the costs of space, and of heating or 
lighting a facility. 
(3) Duplication is reproducing a copy 
of a record, or of the information con-
tained in it, necessary to respond to a 
FOIA request. Copies can take the form 
of paper, audiovisual materials, or 
electronic records, among others. 
(4) Educational institution is any 
school that operates a program of 
scholarly research. A requester in this 
fee category must show that the re-
quest is made in connection with the 
requester’s role at the educational in-
stitution. Components may seek assur-
ance from the requester that the re-
quest is in furtherance of scholarly re-
search and will advise requesters of 
their placement in this category. 
Example 1. A request from a professor of ge-
ology at a university for records relating to 
soil erosion, written on letterhead of the De-
partment of Geology, would be presumed to 
be from an educational institution. 
Example 2. A request from the same pro-
fessor of geology seeking drug information 
from the Food and Drug Administration in 
furtherance of a murder mystery he is writ-
ing would not be presumed to be an institu-
tional request, regardless of whether it was 
written on institutional stationery. 
Example 3. A student who makes a request 
in furtherance of the student’s coursework 
or other school-sponsored activities and pro-
vides a copy of a course syllabus or other 
reasonable documentation to indicate the re-
search purpose for the request, would qualify 
as part of this fee category. 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00308 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR299 
Department of Justice § 16.10 
(5) Noncommercial scientific institution 
is an institution that is not operated 
on a ‘‘commercial’’ basis, as defined in 
paragraph (b)(1) of this section and 
that is operated solely for the purpose 
of conducting scientific research the 
results of which are not intended to 
promote any particular product or in-
dustry. A requester in this category 
must show that the request is author-
ized by and is made under the auspices 
of a qualifying institution and that the 
records are sought to further scientific 
research and are not for a commercial 
use. 
(6) Representative of the news media is 
any person or entity that actively 
gathers information of potential inter-
est to a segment of the public, uses its 
editorial skills to turn the raw mate-
rials into a distinct work, and distrib-
utes that work to an audience. The 
term ‘‘news’’ means information that 
is about current events or that would 
be of current interest to the public. Ex-
amples of news media entities include 
television or radio stations that broad-
cast ‘‘news’’ to the public at large and 
publishers of periodicals that dissemi-
nate ‘‘news’’ and make their products 
available through a variety of means to 
the general public, including news or-
ganizations that disseminate solely on 
the Internet. A request for records sup-
porting the news-dissemination func-
tion of the requester shall not be con-
sidered to be for a commercial use. 
‘‘Freelance’’ journalists who dem-
onstrate a solid basis for expecting 
publication through a news media enti-
ty shall be considered as a representa-
tive of the news media. A publishing 
contract would provide the clearest 
evidence that publication is expected; 
however, components shall also con-
sider a requester’s past publication 
record in making this determination. 
(7) Review is the examination of a 
record located in response to a request 
in order to determine whether any por-
tion of it is exempt from disclosure. 
Review time includes processing any 
record for disclosure, such as doing all 
that is necessary to prepare the record 
for disclosure, including the process of 
redacting the record and marking the 
appropriate exemptions. Review costs 
are properly charged even if a record 
ultimately is not disclosed. Review 
time also includes time spent both ob-
taining and considering any formal ob-
jection to disclosure made by a con-
fidential commercial information sub-
mitter under § 16.7, but it does not in-
clude time spent resolving general 
legal or policy issues regarding the ap-
plication of exemptions. 
(8) Search is the process of looking for 
and retrieving records or information 
responsive to a request. Search time 
includes page-by-page or line-by-line 
identification of information within 
records and the reasonable efforts ex-
pended to locate and retrieve informa-
tion from electronic records. 
(c) Charging fees. In responding to 
FOIA requests, components shall 
charge the following fees unless a waiv-
er or reduction of fees has been granted 
under paragraph (k) of this section. Be-
cause the fee amounts provided below 
already account for the direct costs as-
sociated with a given fee type, compo-
nents should not add any additional 
costs to charges calculated under this 
section. 
(1) Search. (i) Requests made by edu-
cational institutions, noncommercial 
scientific institutions, or representa-
tives of the news media are not subject 
to search fees. Search fees shall be 
charged for all other requesters, sub-
ject to the restrictions of paragraph (d) 
of this section. Components may prop-
erly charge for time spent searching 
even if they do not locate any respon-
sive records or if they determine that 
the records are entirely exempt from 
disclosure. 
(ii) For each quarter hour spent by 
personnel searching for requested 
records, including electronic searches 
that do not require new programming, 
the fees shall be as follows: profes-
sional—$10.00; and clerical/administra-
tive—$4.75. 
(iii) Requesters shall be charged the 
direct costs associated with conducting 
any search that requires the creation 
of a new computer program to locate 
the requested records. Requesters shall 
be notified of the costs associated with 
creating such a program and must 
agree to pay the associated costs before 
the costs may be incurred. 
(iv) For requests that require the re-
trieval of records stored by an agency 
at a Federal records center operated by 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00309 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR300 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.10 
the National Archives and Records Ad-
ministration (NARA), additional costs 
shall be charged in accordance with the 
Transactional Billing Rate Schedule 
established by NARA. 
(2) Duplication. Duplication fees shall 
be charged to all requesters, subject to 
the restrictions of paragraph (d) of this 
section. A component shall honor a re-
quester’s preference for receiving a 
record in a particular form or format 
where it is readily reproducible by the 
component in the form or format re-
quested. Where photocopies are sup-
plied, the component shall provide one 
copy per request at a cost of five cents 
per page. For copies of records pro-
duced on tapes, disks, or other media, 
components shall charge the direct 
costs of producing the copy, including 
operator time. Where paper documents 
must be scanned in order to comply 
with a requester’s preference to receive 
the records in an electronic format, the 
requester shall pay the direct costs as-
sociated with scanning those mate-
rials. For other forms of duplication, 
components shall charge the direct 
costs. 
(3) Review. Review fees shall be 
charged to requesters who make com-
mercial use requests. Review fees shall 
be assessed in connection with the ini-
tial review of the record, i.e., the re-
view conducted by a component to de-
termine whether an exemption applies 
to a particular record or portion of a 
record. No charge will be made for re-
view at the administrative appeal stage 
of exemptions applied at the initial re-
view stage. However, if a particular ex-
emption is deemed to no longer apply, 
any costs associated with a compo-
nent’s re-review of the records in order 
to consider the use of other exemptions 
may be assessed as review fees. Review 
fees shall be charged at the same rates 
as those charged for a search under 
paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section. 
(d) Restrictions on charging fees. (1) No 
search fees will be charged for requests 
by educational institutions (unless the 
records are sought for a commercial 
use), noncommercial scientific institu-
tions, or representatives of the news 
media. 
(2) If a component fails to comply 
with the FOIA’s time limits in which 
to respond to a request, it may not 
charge search fees, or, in the instances 
of requests from requesters described 
in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, may 
not charge duplication fees, except as 
described in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) 
through (iii) of this section. 
(i) If a component has determined 
that unusual circumstances as defined 
by the FOIA apply and the agency pro-
vided timely written notice to the re-
quester in accordance with the FOIA, a 
failure to comply with the time limit 
shall be excused for an additional 10 
days. 
(ii) If a component has determined 
that unusual circumstances as defined 
by the FOIA apply, and more than 5,000 
pages are necessary to respond to the 
request, the component may charge 
search fees, or, in the case of request-
ers described in paragraph (d)(1) of this 
section, may charge duplication fees if 
the following steps are taken. The com-
ponent must have provided timely 
written notice of unusual cir-
cumstances to the requester in accord-
ance with the FOIA and the component 
must have discussed with the requester 
via written mail, email, or telephone 
(or made not less than three good-faith 
attempts to do so) how the requester 
could effectively limit the scope of the 
request in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 
552(a)(6)(B)(ii). If this exception is sat-
isfied, the component may charge all 
applicable fees incurred in the proc-
essing of the request. 
(iii) If a court has determined that 
exceptional circumstances exist as de-
fined by the FOIA, a failure to comply 
with the time limits shall be excused 
for the length of time provided by the 
court order. 
(3) No search or review fees will be 
charged for a quarter-hour period un-
less more than half of that period is re-
quired for search or review. 
(4) Except for requesters seeking 
records for a commercial use, compo-
nents shall provide without charge: 
(i) The first 100 pages of duplication 
(or the cost equivalent for other 
media); and 
(ii) The first two hours of search. 
(5) When, after first deducting the 100 
free pages (or its cost equivalent) and 
the first two hours of search, a total 
fee calculated under paragraph (c) of 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00310 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR301 
Department of Justice § 16.10 
this section is $25.00 or less for any re-
quest, no fee will be charged. 
(e) Notice of anticipated fees in excess 
of $25.00. (1) When a component deter-
mines or estimates that the fees to be 
assessed in accordance with this sec-
tion will exceed $25.00, the component 
shall notify the requester of the actual 
or estimated amount of the fees, in-
cluding a breakdown of the fees for 
search, review or duplication, unless 
the requester has indicated a willing-
ness to pay fees as high as those antici-
pated. If only a portion of the fee can 
be estimated readily, the component 
shall advise the requester accordingly. 
If the requester is a noncommercial use 
requester, the notice shall specify that 
the requester is entitled to the statu-
tory entitlements of 100 pages of dupli-
cation at no charge and, if the re-
quester is charged search fees, two 
hours of search time at no charge, and 
shall advise the requester whether 
those entitlements have been provided. 
(2) In cases in which a requester has 
been notified that the actual or esti-
mated fees are in excess of $25.00, the 
request shall not be considered re-
ceived and further work will not be 
completed until the requester commits 
in writing to pay the actual or esti-
mated total fee, or designates some 
amount of fees the requester is willing 
to pay, or in the case of a noncommer-
cial use requester who has not yet been 
provided with the requester’s statutory 
entitlements, designates that the re-
quester seeks only that which can be 
provided by the statutory entitle-
ments. The requester must provide the 
commitment or designation in writing, 
and must, when applicable, designate 
an exact dollar amount the requester is 
willing to pay. Components are not re-
quired to accept payments in install-
ments. 
(3) If the requester has indicated a 
willingness to pay some designated 
amount of fees, but the component es-
timates that the total fee will exceed 
that amount, the component shall toll 
the processing of the request when it 
notifies the requester of the estimated 
fees in excess of the amount the re-
quester has indicated a willingness to 
pay. The component shall inquire 
whether the requester wishes to revise 
the amount of fees the requester is 
willing to pay or modify the request. 
Once the requester responds, the time 
to respond will resume from where it 
was at the date of the notification. 
(4) Components shall make available 
their FOIA Public Liaison or other 
FOIA professional to assist any re-
quester in reformulating a request to 
meet the requester’s needs at a lower 
cost. 
(f) Charges for other services. Although 
not required to provide special serv-
ices, if a component chooses to do so as 
a matter of administrative discretion, 
the direct costs of providing the service 
shall be charged. Examples of such 
services include certifying that records 
are true copies, providing multiple cop-
ies of the same document, or sending 
records by means other than first class 
mail. 
(g) Charging interest. Components 
may charge interest on any unpaid bill 
starting on the 31st day following the 
date of billing the requester. Interest 
charges shall be assessed at the rate 
provided in 31 U.S.C. 3717 and will ac-
crue from the billing date until pay-
ment is received by the component. 
Components shall follow the provisions 
of the Debt Collection Act of 1982 (Pub. 
L. 97–365, 96 Stat. 1749), as amended, 
and its administrative procedures, in-
cluding the use of consumer reporting 
agencies, collection agencies, and off-
set. 
(h) Aggregating requests. When a com-
ponent reasonably believes that a re-
quester or a group of requesters acting 
in concert is attempting to divide a 
single request into a series of requests 
for the purpose of avoiding fees, the 
component may aggregate those re-
quests and charge accordingly. Compo-
nents may presume that multiple re-
quests of this type made within a 30- 
day period have been made in order to 
avoid fees. For requests separated by a 
longer period, components will aggre-
gate them only where there is a reason-
able basis for determining that aggre-
gation is warranted in view of all the 
circumstances involved. Multiple re-
quests involving unrelated matters 
shall not be aggregated. 
(i) Advance payments. (1) For requests 
other than those described in para-
graphs (i)(2) or (i)(3) of this section, a 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00311 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR302 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.10 
component shall not require the re-
quester to make an advance payment 
before work is commenced or contin-
ued on a request. Payment owed for 
work already completed ( i.e., payment 
before copies are sent to a requester) is 
not an advance payment. 
(2) When a component determines or 
estimates that a total fee to be charged 
under this section will exceed $250.00, it 
may require that the requester make 
an advance payment up to the amount 
of the entire anticipated fee before be-
ginning to process the request. A com-
ponent may elect to process the re-
quest prior to collecting fees when it 
receives a satisfactory assurance of full 
payment from a requester with a his-
tory of prompt payment. 
(3) Where a requester has previously 
failed to pay a properly charged FOIA 
fee to any component or agency within 
30 calendar days of the billing date, a 
component may require that the re-
quester pay the full amount due, plus 
any applicable interest on that prior 
request, and the component may re-
quire that the requester make an ad-
vance payment of the full amount of 
any anticipated fee before the compo-
nent begins to process a new request or 
continues to process a pending request 
or any pending appeal. Where a compo-
nent has a reasonable basis to believe 
that a requester has misrepresented 
the requester’s identity in order to 
avoid paying outstanding fees, it may 
require that the requester provide 
proof of identity. 
(4) In cases in which a component re-
quires advance payment, the request 
shall not be considered received and 
further work will not be completed 
until the required payment is received. 
If the requester does not pay the ad-
vance payment within 30 calendar days 
after the date of the component’s fee 
determination, the request will be 
closed. 
(j) Other statutes specifically providing 
for fees. The fee schedule of this section 
does not apply to fees charged under 
any statute that specifically requires 
an agency to set and collect fees for 
particular types of records. In in-
stances where records responsive to a 
request are subject to a statutorily- 
based fee schedule program, the compo-
nent shall inform the requester of the 
contact information for that program. 
(k) Requirements for waiver or reduc-
tion of fees. (1) Requesters may seek a 
waiver of fees by submitting a written 
application demonstrating how disclo-
sure of the requested information is in 
the public interest because it is likely 
to contribute significantly to public 
understanding of the operations or ac-
tivities of the government and is not 
primarily in the commercial interest of 
the requester. 
(2) A component must furnish records 
responsive to a request without charge 
or at a reduced rate when it deter-
mines, based on all available informa-
tion, that disclosure of the requested 
information is in the public interest 
because it is likely to contribute sig-
nificantly to public understanding of 
the operations or activities of the gov-
ernment and is not primarily in the 
commercial interest of the requester. 
In deciding whether this standard is 
satisfied the component must consider 
the factors described in paragraphs 
(k)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section: 
(i) Disclosure of the requested infor-
mation would shed light on the oper-
ations or activities of the government. 
The subject of the request must con-
cern identifiable operations or activi-
ties of the Federal Government with a 
connection that is direct and clear, not 
remote or attenuated. 
(ii) Disclosure of the requested infor-
mation would be likely to contribute 
significantly to public understanding 
of those operations or activities. This 
factor is satisfied when the following 
criteria are met: 
(A) Disclosure of the requested 
records must be meaningfully inform-
ative about government operations or 
activities. The disclosure of informa-
tion that already is in the public do-
main, in either the same or a substan-
tially identical form, would not be 
meaningfully informative if nothing 
new would be added to the public’s un-
derstanding. 
(B) The disclosure must contribute to 
the understanding of a reasonably 
broad audience of persons interested in 
the subject, as opposed to the indi-
vidual understanding of the requester. 
A requester’s expertise in the subject 
area as well as the requester’s ability 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00312 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR303 
Department of Justice § 16.21 
and intention to effectively convey in-
formation to the public must be consid-
ered. Components will presume that a 
representative of the news media will 
satisfy this consideration. 
(iii) The disclosure must not be pri-
marily in the commercial interest of 
the requester. To determine whether 
disclosure of the requested information 
is primarily in the commercial interest 
of the requester, components will con-
sider the following criteria: 
(A) Components must identify wheth-
er the requester has any commercial 
interest that would be furthered by the 
requested disclosure. A commercial in-
terest includes any commercial, trade, 
or profit interest. Requesters must be 
given an opportunity to provide ex-
planatory information regarding this 
consideration. 
(B) If there is an identified commer-
cial interest, the component must de-
termine whether that is the primary 
interest furthered by the request. A 
waiver or reduction of fees is justified 
when the requirements of paragraphs 
(k)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section are sat-
isfied and any commercial interest is 
not the primary interest furthered by 
the request. Components ordinarily 
will presume that when a news media 
requester has satisfied the require-
ments of paragraphs (k)(2)(i) and (ii) of 
this section, the request is not pri-
marily in the commercial interest of 
the requester. Disclosure to data bro-
kers or others who merely compile and 
market government information for di-
rect economic return will not be pre-
sumed to primarily serve the public in-
terest. 
(3) Where only some of the records to 
be released satisfy the requirements for 
a waiver of fees, a waiver shall be 
granted for those records. 
(4) Requests for a waiver or reduction 
of fees should be made when the re-
quest is first submitted to the compo-
nent and should address the criteria 
referenced above. A requester may sub-
mit a fee waiver request at a later time 
so long as the underlying record re-
quest is pending or on administrative 
appeal. When a requester who has com-
mitted to pay fees subsequently asks 
for a waiver of those fees and that 
waiver is denied, the requester shall be 
required to pay any costs incurred up 
to the date the fee waiver request was 
received. 
[AG Order No. 3517–2015, 80 FR 18106, Apr. 3, 
2015, as amended by AG Order 3803–2016, 82 
FR 728, Jan. 4, 2017] 
§ 16.11 Other rights and services. 
Nothing in this subpart shall be con-
strued to entitle any person, as of 
right, to any service or to the disclo-
sure of any record to which such person 
is not entitled under the FOIA. 
Subpart B—Production or Disclo-
sure in Federal and State Pro-
ceedings 
SOURCE: Order No. 919–80, 45 FR 83210, Dec. 
18, 1980, unless otherwise noted. 
§ 16.21 Purpose and scope. 
(a) This subpart sets forth procedures 
to be followed with respect to the pro-
duction or disclosure of any material 
contained in the files of the Depart-
ment, any information relating to ma-
terial contained in the files of the De-
partment, or any information acquired 
by any person while such person was an 
employee of the Department as a part 
of the performance of that person’s of-
ficial duties or because of that person’s 
official status: 
(1) In all federal and state pro-
ceedings in which the United States is 
a party; and 
(2) In all federal and state pro-
ceedings in which the United States is 
not a party, including any proceedings 
in which the Department is rep-
resenting a government employee sole-
ly in that employee’s individual capac-
ity, when a subpoena, order, or other 
demand (hereinafter collectively re-
ferred to as a ‘‘demand’’) of a court or 
other authority is issued for such ma-
terial or information. 
(b) For purposes of this subpart, the 
term employee of the Department in-
cludes all officers and employees of the 
United States appointed by, or subject 
to the supervision, jurisdiction, or con-
trol of the Attorney General of the 
United States, including U.S. Attor-
neys, U.S. Marshals, U.S. Trustees and 
members of the staffs of those officials. 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00313 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR304 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.22 
(c) Nothing in this subpart is in-
tended to impede the appropriate dis-
closure, in the absence of a demand, of 
information by Department law en-
forcement agencies to federal, state, 
local and foreign law enforcement, 
prosecutive, or regulatory agencies. 
(d) This subpart is intended only to 
provide guidance for the internal oper-
ations of the Department of Justice, 
and is not intended to, and does not, 
and may not be relied upon to create 
any right or benefit, substantive or 
procedural, enforceable at law by a 
party against the United States. 
§ 16.22 General prohibition of produc-
tion or disclosure in Federal and 
State proceedings in which the 
United States is not a party. 
(a) In any federal or state case or 
matter in which the United States is 
not a party, no employee or former em-
ployee of the Department of Justice 
shall, in response to a demand, produce 
any material contained in the files of 
the Department, or disclose any infor-
mation relating to or based upon mate-
rial contained in the files of the De-
partment, or disclose any information 
or produce any material acquired as 
part of the performance of that per-
son’s official duties or because of that 
person’s official status without prior 
approval of the proper Department offi-
cial in accordance with §§ 16.24 and 16.25 
of this part. 
(b) Whenever a demand is made upon 
an employee or former employee as de-
scribed in paragraph (a) of this section, 
the employee shall immediately notify 
the U.S. Attorney for the district 
where the issuing authority is located. 
The responsible United States Attor-
ney shall follow procedures set forth in 
§ 16.24 of this part. 
(c) If oral testimony is sought by a 
demand in any case or matter in which 
the United States is not a party, an af-
fidavit, or, if that is not feasible, a 
statement by the party seeking the 
testimony or by his attorney, setting 
forth a summary of the testimony 
sought and its relevance to the pro-
ceeding, must be furnished to the re-
sponsible U.S. Attorney. Any author-
ization for testimony by a present or 
former employee of the Department 
shall be limited to the scope of the de-
mand as summarized in such state-
ment. 
(d) When information other than oral 
testimony is sought by a demand, the 
responsible U.S. Attorney shall request 
a summary of the information sought 
and its relevance to the proceeding. 
§ 16.23 General disclosure authority in 
Federal and State proceedings in 
which the United States is a party. 
(a) Every attorney in the Department 
of Justice in charge of any case or mat-
ter in which the United States is a 
party is authorized, after consultation 
with the ‘‘originating component’’ as 
defined in § 16.24(a) of this part, to re-
veal and furnish to any person, includ-
ing an actual or prospective witness, a 
grand jury, counsel, or a court, either 
during or preparatory to a proceeding, 
such testimony, and relevant unclassi-
fied material, documents, or informa-
tion secured by any attorney, or inves-
tigator of the Department of Justice, 
as such attorney shall deem necessary 
or desirable to the discharge of the at-
torney’s official duties: Provided, Such 
an attorney shall consider, with re-
spect to any disclosure, the factors set 
forth in § 16.26(a) of this part: And fur-
ther provided, An attorney shall not re-
veal or furnish any material, docu-
ments, testimony or information when, 
in the attorney’s judgment, any of the 
factors specified in § 16.26(b) exists, 
without the express prior approval by 
the Assistant Attorney General in 
charge of the division responsible for 
the case or proceeding, the Director of 
the Executive Office for United States 
Trustees (hereinafter referred to as 
‘‘the EOUST’’), or such persons’ des-
ignees. 
(b) An attorney may seek higher 
level review at any stage of a pro-
ceeding, including prior to the issuance 
of a court order, when the attorney de-
termines that a factor specified in 
§ 16.26(b) exists or foresees that higher 
level approval will be required before 
disclosure of the information or testi-
mony in question. Upon referral of a 
matter under this subsection, the re-
sponsible Assistant Attorney General, 
the Director of EOUST, or their des-
ignees shall follow procedures set forth 
in § 16.24 of this part. 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00314 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR305 
Department of Justice § 16.24 
(c) If oral testimony is sought by a 
demand in a case or matter in which 
the United States is a party, an affi-
davit, or, if that is not feasible, a state-
ment by the party seeking the testi-
mony or by the party’s attorney set-
ting forth a summary of the testimony 
sought must be furnished to the De-
partment attorney handling the case or 
matter. 
§ 16.24 Procedure in the event of a de-
mand where disclosure is not other-
wise authorized. 
(a) Whenever a matter is referred 
under § 16.22 of this part to a U.S. At-
torney or, under § 16.23 of this part, to 
an Assistant Attorney General, the Di-
rector of the EOUST, or their designees 
(hereinafter collectively referred to as 
the ‘‘responsible official’’), the respon-
sible official shall immediately advise 
the official in charge of the bureau, di-
vision, office, or agency of the Depart-
ment that was responsible for the col-
lection, assembly, or other preparation 
of the material demanded or that, at 
the time the person whose testimony 
was demanded acquired the informa-
tion in question, employed such person 
(hereinafter collectively referred to as 
the ‘‘originating component’’), or that 
official’s designee. In any instance in 
which the responsible official is also 
the official in charge of the originating 
component, the responsible official 
may perform all functions and make 
all determinations that this regulation 
vests in the originating component. 
(b) The responsible official, subject 
to the terms of paragraph (c) of this 
section, may authorize the appearance 
and testimony of a present or former 
Department employee, or the produc-
tion of material from Department files 
if: 
(1) There is no objection after inquiry 
of the originating component; 
(2) The demanded disclosure, in the 
judgment of the responsible official, is 
appropriate under the factors specified 
in § 16.26(a) of this part; and 
(3) None of the factors specified in 
§ 16.26(b) of this part exists with respect 
to the demanded disclosure. 
(c) It is Department policy that the 
responsible official shall, following any 
necessary consultation with the origi-
nating component, authorize testi-
mony by a present or former employee 
of the Department or the production of 
material from Department files with-
out further authorization from Depart-
ment officials whenever possible: Pro-
vided, That, when information is col-
lected, assembled, or prepared in con-
nection with litigation or an investiga-
tion supervised by a division of the De-
partment or by the EOUST, the Assist-
ant Attorney General in charge of such 
a division or the Director of the 
EOUST may require that the origi-
nating component obtain the division’s 
or the EOUST’s approval before au-
thorizing a responsible official to dis-
close such information. Prior to au-
thorizing such testimony or produc-
tion, however, the responsible official 
shall, through negotiation and, if nec-
essary, appropriate motions, seek to 
limit the demand to information, the 
disclosure of which would not be incon-
sistent with the considerations speci-
fied in § 16.26 of this part. 
(d)(1) In a case in which the United 
States is not a party, if the responsible 
U.S. attorney and the originating com-
ponent disagree with respect to the ap-
propriateness of demanded testimony 
or of a particular disclosure, or if they 
agree that such testimony or such a 
disclosure should not be made, they 
shall determine if the demand involves 
information that was collected, assem-
bled, or prepared in connection with 
litigation or an investigation super-
vised by a division of this Department 
or the EOUST. If so, the U.S. attorney 
shall notify the Director of the EOUST 
or the Assistant Attorney General in 
charge of the division responsible for 
such litigation or investigation, who 
may: 
(i) Authorize personally or through a 
Deputy Assistant Attorney General, 
the demanded testimony or other dis-
closure of the information if such testi-
mony or other disclosure, in the Assist-
ant or Deputy Assistant Attorney Gen-
eral’s judgment or in the judgment of 
the Director of the EOUST, is con-
sistent with the factors specified in 
§ 16.26(a) of this part, and none of the 
factors specified in § 16.26(b) of this part 
exists with respect to the demanded 
disclosure; 
(ii) Authorize, personally or by a des-
ignee, the responsible official, through 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00315 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR306 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.25 
negotiations and, if necessary, appro-
priate motions, to seek to limit the de-
mand to matters, the disclosure of 
which, through testimony or docu-
ments, considerations specified in 
§ 16.26 of this part, and otherwise to 
take all appropriate steps to limit the 
scope or obtain the withdrawal of a de-
mand; or 
(iii) If, after all appropriate steps 
have been taken to limit the scope or 
obtain the withdrawal of a demand, the 
Director of the EOUST or the Assistant 
or Deputy Assistant Attorney General 
does not authorize the demanded testi-
mony or other disclosure, refer the 
matter, personally or through a Dep-
uty Assistant Attorney General, for 
final resolution to the Deputy or Asso-
ciate Attorney General, as indicated in 
§ 16.25 of this part. 
(2) If the demand for testimony or 
other disclosure in such a case does not 
involve information that was collected, 
assembled, or prepared in connection 
with litigation or an investigation su-
pervised by a division of this Depart-
ment, the originating component shall 
decide whether disclosure is appro-
priate, except that, when especially 
significant issues are raised, the re-
sponsible official may refer the matter 
to the Deputy or Associate Attorney 
General, as indicated in § 16.25 of this 
part. If the originating component de-
termines that disclosure would not be 
appropriate and the responsible official 
does not refer the matter for higher 
level review, the responsible official 
shall take all appropriate steps to limit 
the scope or obtain the withdrawal of a 
demand. 
(e) In a case in which the United 
States is a party, the Assistant General 
or the Director of the EOUST respon-
sible for the case or matter, or such 
persons’ designees, are authorized, 
after consultation with the originating 
component, to exercise the authorities 
specified in paragraph (d)(1) (i) through 
(iii) of this section: Provided, That if a 
demand involves information that was 
collected, assembled, or prepared origi-
nally in connection with litigation or 
an investigation supervised by another 
unit of the Department, the responsible 
official shall notify the other division 
or the EOUST concerning the demand 
and the anticipated response. If two 
litigating units of the Department are 
unable to resolve a disagreement con-
cerning disclosure, the Assistant At-
torneys General in charge of the two 
divisions in disagreement, or the Direc-
tor of the EOUST and the appropriate 
Assistant Attorney General, may refer 
the matter to the Deputy or Associate 
Attorney General, as indicated in 
§ 16.25(b) of this part. 
(f) In any case or matter in which the 
responsible official and the originating 
component agree that it would not be 
appropriate to authorize testimony or 
otherwise to disclose the information 
demanded, even if a court were so to 
require, no Department attorney re-
sponding to the demand should make 
any representation that implies that 
the Department would, in fact, comply 
with the demand if directed to do so by 
a court. After taking all appropriate 
steps in such cases to limit the scope 
or obtain the withdrawal of a demand, 
the responsible official shall refer the 
matter to the Deputy or Associate At-
torney General, as indicated in § 16.25 
of this part. 
(g) In any case or matter in which 
the Attorney General is personally in-
volved in the claim of privilege, the re-
sponsible official may consult with the 
Attorney General and proceed in ac-
cord with the Attorney General’s in-
structions without subsequent review 
by the Deputy or Associate Attorney 
General. 
§ 16.25 Final action by the Deputy or 
Associate Attorney General. 
(a) Unless otherwise indicated, all 
matters to be referred under § 16.24 by 
an Assistant Attorney General, the Di-
rector of the EOUST, or such person’s 
designees to the Deputy or Associate 
Attorney General shall be referred (1) 
to the Deputy Attorney General, if the 
matter is referred personally by or 
through the designee of an Assistant 
Attorney General who is within the 
general supervision of the Deputy At-
torney General, or (2) to the Associate 
Attorney General, in all other cases. 
(b) All other matters to be referred 
under § 16.24 to the Deputy or Associate 
Attorney General shall be referred (1) 
to the Deputy Attorney General, if the 
originating component is within the 
supervision of the Deputy Attorney 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00316 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR307 
Department of Justice § 16.27 
General or is an independent agency 
that, for administrative purposes, is 
within the Department of Justice, or 
(2) to the Associate Attorney General, 
if the originating component is within 
the supervision of the Associate Attor-
ney General. 
(c) Upon referral, the Deputy or Asso-
ciate Attorney General shall make the 
final decision and give notice thereof 
to the responsible official and such 
other persons as circumstances may 
warrant. 
§ 16.26 Considerations in determining 
whether production or disclosure 
should be made pursuant to a de-
mand. 
(a) In deciding whether to make dis-
closures pursuant to a demand, Depart-
ment officials and attorneys should 
consider: 
(1) Whether such disclosure is appro-
priate under the rules of procedure gov-
erning the case or matter in which the 
demand arose, and 
(2) Whether disclosure is appropriate 
under the relevant substantive law 
concerning privilege. 
(b) Among the demands in response 
to which disclosure will not be made by 
any Department official are those de-
mands with respect to which any of the 
following factors exist: 
(1) Disclosure would violate a stat-
ute, such as the income tax laws, 26 
U.S.C. 6103 and 7213, or a rule of proce-
dure, such as the grand jury secrecy 
rule, F.R.Cr.P., Rule 6(e), 
(2) Disclosure would violate a specific 
regulation; 
(3) Disclosure would reveal classified 
information, unless appropriately de-
classified by the originating agency, 
(4) Disclosure would reveal a con-
fidential source or informant, unless 
the investigative agency and the 
source or informant have no objection, 
(5) Disclosure would reveal investiga-
tory records compiled for law enforce-
ment purposes, and would interfere 
with enforcement proceedings or dis-
close investigative techniques and pro-
cedures the effectiveness of which 
would thereby be impaired, 
(6) Disclosure would improperly re-
veal trade secrets without the owner’s 
consent. 
(c) In all cases not involving consid-
erations specified in paragraphs (b)(1) 
through (b)(6) of this section, the Dep-
uty or Associate Attorney General will 
authorize disclosure unless, in that 
person’s judgment, after considering 
paragraph (a) of this section, disclosure 
is unwarranted. The Deputy or Asso-
ciate Attorney General will not ap-
prove disclosure if the circumstances 
specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through 
(b)(3) of this section exist. The Deputy 
or Associate Attorney General will not 
approve disclosure if any of the condi-
tions in paragraphs (b)(4) through (b)(6) 
of this section exist, unless the Deputy 
or Associate Attorney General deter-
mines that the administration of jus-
tice requires disclosure. In this regard, 
if disclosure is necessary to pursue a 
civil or criminal prosecution or affirm-
ative relief, such as an injunction, con-
sideration shall be given to: 
(1) The seriousness of the violation or 
crime involved, 
(2) The past history or criminal 
record of the violator or accused, 
(3) The importance of the relief 
sought, 
(4) The importance of the legal issues 
presented, 
(5) Other matters brought to the at-
tention of the Deputy or Associate At-
torney General. 
(d) Assistant Attorneys General, U.S. 
Attorneys, the Director of the EOUST, 
U.S. Trustees, and their designees, are 
authorized to issue instructions to at-
torneys and to adopt supervisory prac-
tices, consistent with this subpart, in 
order to help foster consistent applica-
tion of the foregoing standards and the 
requirements of this subpart. 
§ 16.27 Procedure in the event a de-
partment decision concerning a de-
mand is not made prior to the time 
a response to the demand is re-
quired. 
If response to a demand is required 
before the instructions from the appro-
priate Department official are re-
ceived, the responsible official or other 
Department attorney designated for 
the purpose shall appear and furnish 
the court or other authority with a 
copy of the regulations contained in 
this subpart and inform the court or 
other authority that the demand has 
been or is being, as the case may be, re-
ferred for the prompt consideration of 
the appropriate Department official 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00317 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR308 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.28 
and shall respectfully request the court 
or authority to stay the demand pend-
ing receipt of the requested instruc-
tions. 
§ 16.28 Procedure in the event of an 
adverse ruling. 
If the court or other authority de-
clines to stay the effect of the demand 
in response to a request made in ac-
cordance with § 16.27 of this chapter 
pending receipt of instructions, or if 
the court or other authority rules that 
the demand must be complied with ir-
respective of instructions rendered in 
accordance with §§ 16.24 and 16.25 of this 
part not to produce the material or dis-
close the information sought, the em-
ployee or former employee upon whom 
the demand has been made shall, if so 
directed by the responsible Department 
official, respectfully decline to comply 
with the demand. See United States ex 
rel. Touhy v. Ragen, 340 U.S. 462 (1951). 
§ 16.29 Delegation by Assistant Attor-
neys General. 
With respect to any function that 
this subpart permits the designee of an 
Assistant Attorney General to perform, 
the Assistant Attorneys General are 
authorized to delegate their authority, 
in any case or matter or any category 
of cases or matters, to subordinate di-
vision officials or U.S. attorneys, as ap-
propriate. 
A
PPENDIX TO SUBPART B OF PART 16— 
REDELEGATION OF AUTHORITY TO  
THE DEPUTY ASSISTANT ATTORNEY 
GENERAL FOR LITIGATION, A NTI-
TRUST DIVISION, TO AUTHORIZE PRO-
DUCTION OR DISCLOSURE OF MATE-
RIAL OR INFORMATION 
1. By virtue of the authority vested in me 
by 28 CFR 16.23(b)(1) the authority delegated 
to me by that section to authorize the pro-
duction of material and disclosure of infor-
mation described in 28 CFR 16.21(a) is hereby 
redelegated to the Deputy Assistant Attor-
ney General for Litigation, Antitrust Divi-
sion. 
2. This directive shall become effective on 
the date of its publication in the F
EDERAL 
REGISTER. 
[Order No. 960–81, 46 FR 52356, Oct. 27, 1981] 
Subpart C—Production of FBI 
Identification Records in Re-
sponse to Written Requests by 
Subjects Thereof 
SOURCE: Order No. 556–73, 38 FR 32806, Nov. 
28, 1973, unless otherwise noted. 
§ 16.30 Purpose and scope. 
This subpart contains the regulations 
of the Federal Bureau of Investigation 
(FBI) concerning procedures to be fol-
lowed when the subject of an identi-
fication record requests production of 
that record to review it or to obtain a 
change, correction, or updating of that 
record. 
[Order No. 2258–99, 64 FR 52226, Sept. 28, 1999] 
§ 16.31 Definition of identification 
record. 
An FBI identification record, often 
referred to as a ‘‘rap sheet,’’ is a listing 
of certain information taken from fin-
gerprint submissions retained by the 
FBI in connection with arrests and, in 
some instances, includes information 
taken from fingerprints submitted in 
connection with federal employment, 
naturalization, or military service. The 
identification record includes the name 
of the agency or institution that sub-
mitted the fingerprints to the FBI. If 
the fingerprints concern a criminal of-
fense, the identification record in-
cludes the date of arrest or the date 
the individual was received by the 
agency submitting the fingerprints, the 
arrest charge, and the disposition of 
the arrest if known to the FBI. All ar-
rest data included in an identification 
record are obtained from fingerprint 
submissions, disposition reports, and 
other reports submitted by agencies 
having criminal justice responsibil-
ities. Therefore, the FBI Criminal Jus-
tice Information Services Division is 
not the source of the arrest data re-
flected on an identification record. 
[Order No. 2258–99, 64 FR 52226, Sept. 28, 1999] 
§ 16.32 Procedure to obtain an identi-
fication record. 
The subject of an identification 
record may obtain a copy thereof by 
submitting a written request via the 
U.S. mails directly to the FBI, Crimi-
nal Justice Information Services 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00318 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR309 
Department of Justice § 16.40 
(CJIS) Division, ATTN: SCU, Mod. D–2, 
1000 Custer Hollow Road, Clarksburg, 
WV 26306. Such request must be accom-
panied by satisfactory proof of iden-
tity, which shall consist of name, date 
and place of birth and a set of rolled- 
inked fingerprint impressions placed 
upon fingerprint cards or forms com-
monly utilized for applicant or law en-
forcement purposes by law enforcement 
agencies. 
[Order No. 1134–86, 51 FR 16677, May 6, 1986, as 
amended by Order No. 2258–99, 64 FR 52226, 
Sept. 28, 1999] 
§ 16.33 Fee for production of identi-
fication record. 
Each written request for production 
of an identification record must be ac-
companied by a fee of $18 in the form of 
a certified check or money order, pay-
able to the Treasury of the United 
States. This fee is established pursuant 
to the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 9701 and is 
based upon the clerical time beyond 
the first quarter hour to be spent in 
searching for, identifying, and repro-
ducing each identification record re-
quested as specified in § 16.10. Any re-
quest for waiver of the fee shall accom-
pany the original request for the iden-
tification record and shall include a 
claim and proof of indigency. Subject 
to applicable laws, regulations, and di-
rections of the Attorney General of the 
United States, the Director of the FBI 
may from time to time determine and 
establish a revised fee amount to be as-
sessed under this authority. Notice re-
lating to revised fee amounts shall be 
published in the F
EDERAL REGISTER. 
[Order No. 1943–94, 60 FR 38, Jan. 3, 1995, as 
amended by Order No. 2258–99, 64 FR 52226, 
Sept. 28, 1999] 
§ 16.34 Procedure to obtain change, 
correction or updating of identifica-
tion records. 
If, after reviewing his/her identifica-
tion record, the subject thereof be-
lieves that it is incorrect or incomplete 
in any respect and wishes changes, cor-
rections or updating of the alleged defi-
ciency, he/she should make application 
directly to the agency which contrib-
uted the questioned information. The 
subject of a record may also direct his/ 
her challenge as to the accuracy or 
completeness of any entry on his/her 
record to the FBI, Criminal Justice In-
formation Services (CJIS) Division, 
ATTN: SCU, Mod. D–2, 1000 Custer Hol-
low Road, Clarksburg, WV 26306. The 
FBI will then forward the challenge to 
the agency which submitted the data 
requesting that agency to verify or cor-
rect the challenged entry. Upon the re-
ceipt of an official communication di-
rectly from the agency which contrib-
uted the original information, the FBI 
CJIS Division will make any changes 
necessary in accordance with the infor-
mation supplied by that agency. 
[Order No. 1134–86, 51 FR 16677, May 6, 1986, as 
amended by Order No. 2258–99, 64 FR 52226, 
Sept. 28, 1999] 
Subpart D—Access to and 
Amendment of Individual 
Records Pursuant to the Pri-
vacy Act of 1974, and Other 
Privacy Protections 
SOURCE: AG Order No. 5851–2024, 89 FR 1450, 
Jan. 10, 2024, unless otherwise noted. 
§ 16.40 General provisions. 
(a) Purpose and scope. (1) This subpart 
contains the rules that the Department 
of Justice (‘‘DOJ’’ or ‘‘the Depart-
ment’’) follows when handling records 
maintained by the Department in a 
system of records, in accordance with 
the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended, 5 
U.S.C. 552a (‘‘Privacy Act’’ or ‘‘PA’’). 
This subpart describes the procedures 
by which individuals can be notified if 
a Department system of records con-
tains records about themselves, may 
request access to records about them-
selves maintained in a Department sys-
tem of records, may request amend-
ment or correction of records about 
themselves maintained in a Depart-
ment system of records, and may re-
quest an accounting of disclosures of 
records about themselves maintained 
in a Department system of records. 
This subpart also establishes other pro-
cedures on the appropriate mainte-
nance of records by the Department 
and when Privacy Act exemptions may 
apply. This subpart should be read to-
gether with the Privacy Act, which 
provides additional information about 
records maintained in agency systems 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00319 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR310 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.40 
of records, including those of the De-
partment. 
(2) This subpart contains the proce-
dures that the Department follows 
when handling covered records main-
tained by the Department in a system 
of records, in accordance with the Judi-
cial Redress Act of 2015, 5 U.S.C. 552a 
note (‘‘Judicial Redress Act’’). This 
subpart should be read together with 
the Privacy Act and the Judicial Re-
dress Act, which provide additional in-
formation about covered records main-
tained in agency systems of records, in-
cluding those of the Department. 
(3) This subpart contains the proce-
dures that the Department follows 
when collecting, using, maintaining, or 
disclosing Social Security account 
numbers, in accordance with the Pri-
vacy Act and the Social Security Num-
ber Fraud Prevention Act of 2017, 42 
U.S.C. 405 note (‘‘Social Security Num-
ber Fraud Prevention Act’’). This sub-
part should be read together with the 
Privacy Act and the Social Security 
Number Fraud Prevention Act, which 
provide additional information about 
agencies’ maintenance of Social Secu-
rity account numbers, including that 
of the Department. 
(b) Relationship to the Freedom of In-
formation Act. The Department also 
processes Privacy Act requests for ac-
cess to records under the Freedom of 
Information Act (FOIA), 5 U.S.C. 552, 
following the rules contained in sub-
part A of this part, which gives re-
questers the benefits of both statutes. 
(c) Definitions. In addition to the defi-
nitions found under 5 U.S.C. 552a(a), 
and section (2)(h) of the Judicial Re-
dress Act, as used in this subpart: 
Component means each separate bu-
reau, office, board, division, commis-
sion, service, or administration of the 
Department. 
Privacy Act request for access means a 
request made in accordance with 5 
U.S.C. 552a(d)(1), and includes requests 
for a Privacy Act access appeal, in ac-
cordance with this subpart. 
Privacy Act request for amendment or 
correction means a request made in ac-
cordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(2)–(4), 
and includes requests for a Privacy Act 
amendment or correction appeal, in ac-
cordance with this subpart. 
Privacy Act request for an accounting 
means a request made in accordance 
with 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3). 
Requester means an individual who 
makes a Privacy Act request for ac-
cess, a Privacy Act request for amend-
ment or correction, a Privacy Act re-
quest for an accounting, or, as provided 
by the Judicial Redress Act, a covered 
person who makes either a Privacy Act 
request for access or a Privacy Act re-
quest for amendment or correction to 
covered records. 
System of Records Notice means the 
notice(s) published by the Department 
in the F
EDERAL REGISTER upon the es-
tablishment or modification of a sys-
tem of records describing the existence 
and character of the system of records. 
A System of Records Notice (‘‘SORN’’) 
may be composed of a single F
EDERAL 
REGISTER notice addressing all of the 
required elements that describe the 
current system of records, or it may be 
composed of multiple F
EDERAL REG-
ISTER notices that together address all 
of the required elements. 
(d) Authority to request records for a 
law enforcement purpose. The head of a 
component or a United States Attor-
ney, or either’s designee, is authorized 
to make written requests under 5 
U.S.C. 552a(b)(7), for records main-
tained by other agencies that are nec-
essary to carry out an authorized law 
enforcement activity. The request 
must specify the particular portion de-
sired and the law enforcement activity 
for which the record is sought. 
(e) Judicial Redress Act application. (1) 
With respect to covered records, the 
Judicial Redress Act authorizes a cov-
ered person to bring a civil action 
against the Department and obtain 
civil remedies, in the same manner, to 
the same extent, and subject to the 
same limitations, including exemp-
tions and exceptions, as an individual 
may bring a civil action and obtain 
civil remedies with respect to records 
under 5 U.S.C. 552a(g)(1)(A), (B). 
(2) To the extent consistent with the 
Judicial Redress Act, when making a 
request for access, amendment, or cor-
rection to a covered record, a covered 
person must follow the procedures out-
lined in this subpart for making a Pri-
vacy Act request for access to a cov-
ered record, or a Privacy Act request 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00320 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR311 
Department of Justice § 16.41 
for amendment or correction of a cov-
ered record. A covered person must ex-
haust the administrative remedies, as 
outlined in this subpart, before the 
covered person may bring a cause of ac-
tion described in paragraph (e)(1) of 
this section. 
(f) Providing written consent to disclose 
records protected under the Privacy Act. 
The Department may disclose any 
record contained in a system of records 
by any means of communication to any 
person, or to another agency, pursuant 
to a written request by, or with the 
prior written consent of, the individual 
about whom the record pertains. An in-
dividual must verify the individual’s 
identity in the same manner as re-
quired by § 16.41(d) when providing 
written consent to disclose a record 
protected under the Privacy Act and 
pertaining to the individual. 
§ 16.41 Privacy Act requests for access 
to records. 
(a) General information. (1) The De-
partment has a decentralized system 
for responding to Privacy Act requests 
for access to records, with each compo-
nent designating an office to process 
Privacy Act requests for access to 
records maintained by that component. 
A requester may make a Privacy Act 
request for access to records about the 
requester by writing directly to the 
component that maintains the records. 
All components have the capability to 
receive requests electronically either 
through email or a web portal. The re-
quest should be sent or delivered to the 
component’s office at the address listed 
in appendix I to this part, or in accord-
ance with the access procedures out-
lined in the corresponding SORN. The 
functions of each component are sum-
marized in part 0 of this title and in 
the description of the Department and 
its components in the United States 
Government Manual, which is updated 
on a year-round basis and is available 
free of charge at https:// 
www.usgovernmentmanual.gov/. 
(2) If a requester cannot determine 
where within the Department to send 
the Privacy Act request for access to 
records, the requester may send it by 
mail to the FOIA/PA Mail Referral 
Unit, Justice Management Division, 
Department of Justice, 950 Pennsyl-
vania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 
20530–0001; by email to 
MRUFOIA.Requests@usdoj.gov; or by fax 
to (202) 616–6695. The Mail Referral Unit 
will forward the request to the compo-
nent(s) it believes most likely to have 
the requested records. For the quickest 
possible handling, the requester should 
mark both the request letter and the 
envelope ‘‘Privacy Act Access Re-
quest.’’ 
(b) Description of records sought. Re-
questers must describe the records 
sought in sufficient detail to enable 
Department personnel to locate the ap-
plicable system of records containing 
them with a reasonable amount of ef-
fort. To the extent possible, requesters 
should include specific information 
that may assist a component in identi-
fying the requested records, such as the 
name or identifying number of each 
system of records in which the re-
quester believes the records are main-
tained, or the date, title, name, author, 
recipient, case number, file designa-
tion, reference number, or subject mat-
ter of the record. The Department pub-
lishes SORNs in the F
EDERAL REGISTER 
that describe the type and categories of 
records maintained in Department- 
wide and component-specific systems 
of records. Department SORNs may be 
found in published issues of the F
ED-
ERAL REGISTER and a list is available 
at https://www.justice.gov/opcl/doj-sys-
tems-records. Requesters may also re-
quest the record in a particular form or 
format. 
(c) Agreement to pay fees. A Privacy 
Act request for access may specify the 
amount of fees that the requester is 
willing to pay in accordance with 
§ 16.49. The component responsible for 
responding to the request shall confirm 
this agreement in an acknowledgement 
letter, in accordance with § 16.43. 
(d) Verification of identity. (1) A re-
quester must verify the requester’s 
identity when making a Privacy Act 
request for access. The requester must 
state the requester’s full name, current 
address, and date and place of birth. 
The requester must: 
(i) Sign the request, and the signa-
ture must either be notarized or sub-
mitted by the requester under 28 U.S.C. 
1746, a law that permits statements to 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00321 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR312 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.42 
be made under penalty of perjury as a 
substitute for notarization; or 
(ii) When available, use one of the 
Department’s approved digital serv-
ices, as indicated on the Department’s 
Privacy Act Request web page, to 
verify the identity of the requester 
through identity proofing and authen-
tication processes. 
(2) While no specific form is required, 
the requester may obtain forms for this 
purpose from the FOIA/PA Mail Refer-
ral Unit, Justice Management Division, 
Department of Justice, 950 Pennsyl-
vania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 
20530–0001, or obtain the form at https:// 
www.justice.gov/oip/doj-reference-guide- 
attachment-d-copies-forms. 
(3) To help identify and locate re-
quested records, a requester may also 
include, at the requester’s option, any 
additional identifying information 
which may be helpful in identifying 
and locating the requested records. 
Components shall establish appropriate 
administrative, technical, and physical 
safeguards to ensure the security and 
confidentiality of information provided 
by the requester, and to protect 
against any anticipated threats, in ac-
cordance with § 16.51. 
(e) Verification of guardianship. (1) 
The parent of a minor, or the legal 
guardian of an individual who has been 
declared incompetent due to physical 
or mental incapacity or age by a court 
of competent jurisdiction, is permitted 
to act on behalf of the individual. In 
order for a parent of a minor or the 
legal guardian of an individual to make 
a Privacy Act request for access on be-
half of the individual, the parent or 
legal guardian must establish: 
(i) The identity of the individual who 
is the subject of the request, by stating 
the name, current address, date and 
place of birth, and, at the parent or 
legal guardian’s option, any additional 
identifying information that may be 
helpful in identifying and locating the 
requested records; 
(ii) The parent or legal guardian’s 
own identity, as required in paragraph 
(d) of this section; 
(iii) Proof of parentage or legal 
guardianship, which may be proven by 
providing a copy of the individual’s 
birth certificate or by providing a 
court order establishing legal guard-
ianship; and 
(iv) That the parent or legal guardian 
is acting on behalf of that individual in 
making the request. 
(2) Components shall establish appro-
priate administrative, technical, and 
physical safeguards to ensure the secu-
rity and confidentiality of information 
provided by the parent or legal guard-
ian, and to protect against any antici-
pated threats, in accordance with 
§ 16.51. 
§ 16.42 Responsibility for responding 
to Privacy Act requests for access 
to records. 
(a) In general. Except as stated in 
paragraphs (c) through (f) of this sec-
tion, the component that first receives 
a Privacy Act request for access is the 
component responsible for responding 
to the request. In determining which 
records are responsive to a request, a 
component ordinarily will include only 
those records it maintained as of the 
date the component begins its search. 
If any other date is used, the compo-
nent shall inform the requester of that 
date. 
(b) Authority to grant or deny requests. 
The head of a component, or the com-
ponent head’s designee, is authorized 
to grant or deny any Privacy Act re-
quest for access to records maintained 
by that component. 
(c) Re-routing of misdirected requests. 
When a component’s FOIA/Privacy Act 
office determines that a request was 
misdirected within the Department, 
the receiving component’s FOIA/Pri-
vacy Act office shall route the request 
to the FOIA/Privacy Act office of the 
proper component(s). 
(d) Consultations, referrals, and coordi-
nation. When a component receives a 
Privacy Act request for access to a 
record in its possession, it shall deter-
mine whether another component, or 
another agency of the Federal Govern-
ment, is better able to determine 
whether the record is exempt from ac-
cess under the Privacy Act. If the re-
ceiving component determines that it 
is best able to process the record in re-
sponse to the request, then it shall do 
so. If the receiving component deter-
mines that it is not best able to process 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00322 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR313 
Department of Justice § 16.43 
the record, then it shall follow the con-
sultation, referral, and coordination 
procedures under § 16.4, subject to the 
requirements in this section. Compo-
nents may make agreements with 
other components or agencies to elimi-
nate the need for consultations or re-
ferrals for particular types of records. 
(e) Consultations, referrals, and coordi-
nation concerning law enforcement infor-
mation. When a component receives a 
Privacy Act request for access to a 
record in its possession containing in-
formation that relates to an investiga-
tion of a possible violation of law and 
that originated with another compo-
nent or agency of the Federal Govern-
ment, the receiving component shall 
either refer the responsibility for re-
sponding to the request regarding that 
information to that other component 
or agency or shall consult with that 
other component or agency. 
(f) Consultations, referrals, and coordi-
nation concerning classified information. 
(1) When a component receives a Pri-
vacy Act request for access to a record 
containing information that has been 
classified or may be appropriate for 
classification by another component or 
agency under any applicable Executive 
order concerning the classification of 
records, the receiving component shall 
consult with or refer the responsibility 
for responding to the request regarding 
that information to the component or 
agency that classified the information, 
or that should consider the informa-
tion for classification. 
(2) When a component receives a Pri-
vacy Act request for access to a record 
containing information that has been 
derivatively classified, the receiving 
component shall consult with or refer 
the responsibility for responding to 
that portion of the request to the com-
ponent or agency that classified the 
underlying information. 
§ 16.43 Responses to a Privacy Act re-
quests for access to records. 
(a) In general. Components should, to 
the extent practicable, communicate 
with requesters who have access to the 
internet using electronic means, such 
as through email or a web portal. A 
component shall honor a requester’s 
preference for receiving a record in a 
particular form or format where it is 
readily reproducible by the component 
in the form or format requested. 
(b) Acknowledgement of requests. The 
component responsible for responding 
to the request must acknowledge, in 
writing, receipt of a Privacy Act re-
quest for access. A component shall 
initially respond to the requester by 
acknowledging the Privacy Act request 
for access, assigning the request an in-
dividualized tracking number, and, if 
applicable, confirming, in writing, the 
requester’s agreement to pay fees in 
accordance with § 16.49. 
(c) Timing of responses to a Privacy Act 
request for access. (1) Components ordi-
narily will respond to Privacy Act re-
quests for access according to their 
order of receipt. The response time will 
commence on the date that the request 
is received by the proper component’s 
office designated to receive requests, 
but in any event not later than ten (10) 
working days after the request is first 
received by any component’s office des-
ignated by this subpart to receive re-
quests. 
(2) A component may designate mul-
tiple processing tracks that distinguish 
between simple and more complex Pri-
vacy Act requests for access, based on 
the estimated amount of work or time 
needed to process the request. Among 
the factors a component may consider 
are the number of pages involved in 
processing the request and the need for 
consultations or referrals. Components 
may advise requesters of the track into 
which their request falls and, when ap-
propriate, may offer requesters an op-
portunity to narrow their request so 
that it can be placed in a different 
processing track. 
(d) Granting a Privacy Act request for 
access. Once a component makes a de-
termination to grant a Privacy Act re-
quest for access, in whole or in part, it 
shall notify the requester in writing. 
The component shall inform the re-
quester in the notice of any fee charged 
under § 16.49 and shall disclose records 
to the requester promptly on payment 
of any applicable fee. 
(e) Adverse determination to a Privacy 
Act request for access. A component that 
makes an adverse determination to a 
Privacy Act request for access, in 
whole or in part, shall notify the re-
quester of the adverse determination in 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00323 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR314 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.44 
writing. An adverse determination to a 
Privacy Act request for access includes 
a determination by the component 
that: the request did not reasonably de-
scribe the record sought; the informa-
tion requested is not a record subject 
to the Privacy Act; the requested 
record is not maintained in a system of 
records; the requested record is ex-
empt, in whole or in part, from a Pri-
vacy Act request for access under ap-
plicable exemption(s); the requested 
record does not exist, cannot be lo-
cated, or has been destroyed; the 
record is not readily reproducible in a 
comprehensible form; or there is a 
matter regarding disputed fees. 
(f) Content of adverse determination re-
sponse. An adverse determination to a 
Privacy Act request for access, in 
whole or in part, shall be signed by the 
head of the component, or the compo-
nent head’s designee, and shall include: 
(1) The name and title or position of 
the person responsible for the adverse 
determination to the Privacy Act re-
quest for access; 
(2) A brief statement of the reason(s) 
for the adverse determination to the 
Privacy Act request for access, includ-
ing any Privacy Act exemption(s) ap-
plied by the component; 
(3) An estimate of the volume of any 
records or information withheld, if ap-
plicable, such as the number of pages 
or some other reasonable form of esti-
mation, although such an estimate is 
not required if the volume is otherwise 
indicated or if providing an estimate 
would harm an interest protected by an 
applicable exemption; and 
(4) A statement that the adverse de-
termination to the Privacy Act request 
for access may be appealed under 
§ 16.45, and a description of the require-
ments set forth in § 16.45. 
§ 16.44 Classified information. 
In processing a Privacy Act request 
for access, a Privacy Act request for 
amendment or correction, or a Privacy 
Act request for accounting, in which 
information is classified under any ap-
plicable Executive order concerning 
the classification of records, to the ex-
tent the requester lacks the appro-
priate security clearance and fails oth-
erwise to meet all requirements to ac-
cess the classified record or informa-
tion, the originating component shall 
review the information in the record to 
determine whether it should remain 
classified. Information determined to 
no longer require classification shall be 
de-classified and the record evaluated 
for an appropriate release to the re-
quester, subject to any applicable ex-
emptions or exceptions. On receipt of 
any appeal involving classified infor-
mation, the official responsible for ad-
judicating the appeal shall take appro-
priate action to ensure compliance 
with part 17 of this title. 
§ 16.45 Privacy Act access appeals. 
(a) Requirement for making a Privacy 
Act access appeal. A requester may ap-
peal an adverse determination to a Pri-
vacy Act request for access to the Of-
fice of Information Policy (‘‘OIP’’). The 
contact information for OIP is con-
tained in the FOIA Reference Guide, 
which is available at https:// 
www.justice.gov/oip/04l3.html. Appeals 
may also be submitted through the web 
portal accessible on OIP’s website. Ex-
amples of an adverse determination to 
a Privacy Act request for access are 
provided in § 16.43. The requester must 
make the appeal in writing. To be con-
sidered timely, the requester must 
postmark, or in the case of electronic 
submissions, submit the request, with-
in 90 calendar days after the date of the 
adverse determination. The appeal 
should indicate the assigned request 
number and clearly identify the com-
ponent’s determination that is being 
appealed. To facilitate handling, the 
requester should mark both the appeal 
letter and envelope, or include in the 
subject line of any electronic commu-
nication, ‘‘Privacy Act Access Appeal.’’ 
(b) Adjudication of Privacy Act access 
appeals. (1) The Director of OIP, or a 
designee of the Director of OIP, shall 
act on behalf of the Attorney General 
on all Privacy Act access appeals under 
this section, unless the Attorney Gen-
eral directs otherwise. 
(2) Should the Attorney General exer-
cise the right to respond to a Privacy 
Act request for access, the Attorney 
General’s decision shall serve as the 
final action of the Department and will 
not be subject to a Privacy Act access 
appeal. 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00324 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR315 
Department of Justice § 16.46 
(3) A Privacy Act access appeal ordi-
narily will not be adjudicated if the re-
quest becomes a matter of litigation. 
(c) Responses to Privacy Act access ap-
peals. (1) OIP shall make its decision on 
an appeal in writing. 
(2) A decision that upholds a compo-
nent’s adverse determination to the 
Privacy Act request for access, in 
whole or in part, shall include a brief 
statement of the reason(s) for the af-
firmance, including any Privacy Act 
exemption applied, and shall provide 
the requester with notification of the 
statutory right to file a lawsuit. 
(3) A decision that reverses or modi-
fies, in whole or in part, a component’s 
adverse determination to the Privacy 
Act request for access shall include no-
tice to the requester of the specific re-
versal or modification. The compo-
nent(s) shall thereafter further process 
the request, in accordance with the ap-
peal decision, and respond directly to 
the requester, as appropriate. 
(d) When a Privacy Act access appeal is 
required. Before seeking review by a 
court of a component’s refusal to grant 
a Privacy Act request for access, a re-
quester generally must first submit a 
timely appeal in accordance with this 
section. 
§ 16.46 Privacy Act requests for 
amendment or correction. 
(a) Requirements for making a Privacy 
Act request for amendment or correction. 
Unless the record is not subject to 
amendment or correction, as stated in 
paragraph (i) of this section, individ-
uals may make a Privacy Act request 
for amendment or correction of a De-
partment record about themselves. Re-
questers must write directly to the De-
partment component that maintains 
the record. A Privacy Act request for 
amendment or correction shall identify 
each particular record in question, 
state the amendment or correction 
that the requester would like to make, 
and state why the requester believes 
the record is not accurate, relevant, 
timely, or complete. Requesters may 
submit any documentation that would 
be helpful in determining the accuracy, 
relevance, timeliness, or completeness 
of the record. If the requester believes 
that the same record is in more than 
one Department system of records, the 
requester should address the request to 
each component that the requester be-
lieves maintains the record. For the 
quickest possible handling, requesters 
should mark both their request letter 
and envelope ‘‘Privacy Act Amendment 
Request.’’ Components and requesters 
must otherwise follow the procedures 
and responsibilities set forth in §§ 16.41 
and 16.42. 
(b) Timing of responses to a Privacy Act 
request for amendment or correction. (1) 
Components responsible for responding 
to a Privacy Act request for amend-
ment or correction must acknowledge, 
in writing, receipt of the request no 
later than ten (10) working days after 
receipt. 
(2) Components must promptly re-
spond to a Privacy Act request for 
amendment or correction. Components 
ordinarily will respond to Privacy Act 
requests for amendment or correction 
according to their order of receipt. The 
response time will commence on the 
date that the request is received by the 
proper component’s office designated 
to receive requests, but in any event no 
later than ten (10) working days after 
the request is first received by any 
component’s office designated by this 
subpart to receive requests. 
(3) A component may designate mul-
tiple processing tracks that distinguish 
between simple and more complex Pri-
vacy Act requests for amendment or 
correction, based on the estimated 
amount of work or time needed to 
process the request. Among the factors 
a component may consider are the 
number of pages involved in processing 
the request and the need for consulta-
tions or referrals. Components may ad-
vise requesters of the track into which 
their request falls and, when appro-
priate, may offer requesters an oppor-
tunity to narrow their request so that 
it can be placed in a different proc-
essing track. 
(c) Granting a Privacy Act request for 
amendment or correction. If a component 
grants a Privacy Act request for 
amendment or correction, in whole or 
in part, it shall notify the requester in 
writing. The component shall describe 
the amendment or correction made and 
shall advise the requester of the re-
quester’s right to obtain a copy of the 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00325 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR316 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.46 
corrected or amended record, in ac-
cordance with the Privacy Act right of 
access procedures described in §§ 16.41 
through 16.45. 
(d) Adverse determination to a Privacy 
Act request for amendment or correction. 
A component that makes an adverse 
determination to a Privacy Act request 
for amendment or correction, in whole 
or in part, shall notify the requester of 
the determination in writing. An ad-
verse determination to a Privacy Act 
request for amendment or correction 
includes a decision by the component 
that: the information at issue is not a 
record as defined by the Privacy Act; 
the requested record is not subject to 
amendment or correction as stated in 
paragraph (i) of this section; the re-
quest does not reasonably describe the 
records sought or the amendment or 
correction to that record; the record at 
issue does not exist, cannot be located, 
has been destroyed, or otherwise can-
not be amended or corrected; or the 
record is maintained with such accu-
racy, relevance, timeliness, and com-
pleteness as is reasonably necessary to 
assure fairness in any determination 
about the individual about whom the 
record pertains. 
(e) Content of adverse determination re-
sponse. An adverse determination to a 
Privacy Act request for amendment or 
correction, in whole or in part, shall be 
signed by the head of the component, 
or the component head’s designee, and 
shall include: 
(1) The name and title or position of 
the person responsible for the adverse 
determination to the Privacy Act re-
quest for amendment or correction; 
(2) A brief statement of the reason(s) 
for the adverse determination to the 
Privacy Act request for amendment or 
correction, including any Privacy Act 
exemption(s) applied by the compo-
nent; and 
(3) A statement that the adverse de-
termination to the Privacy Act request 
for amendment or correction may be 
appealed under paragraph (f) of this 
section and a description of the re-
quirements set forth in paragraph (f). 
(f) Privacy Act amendment appeals. (1) 
A requester may appeal an adverse de-
termination to a Privacy Act request 
for amendment or correction, in whole 
or in part, to the Office of Privacy and 
Civil Liberties (‘‘OPCL’’). The contact 
information for OPCL is available at 
https://www.justice.gov/privacy. The re-
quester must make the appeal in writ-
ing. To be considered timely, the re-
quester must postmark the appeal re-
quest, or in the case of electronic sub-
missions, submit the appeal request, 
within 90 calendar days after the date 
of the component’s refusal to grant a 
Privacy Act request for amendment or 
correction. The appeal should indicate 
the assigned request number and clear-
ly identify the component’s determina-
tion that is being appealed. To facili-
tate handling, the requester should 
mark both the appeal letter and enve-
lope, or include in the subject line of 
the electronic transmission, ‘‘Privacy 
Act Amendment Appeal.’’ 
(2) The Chief Privacy and Civil Lib-
erties Officer (‘‘CPCLO’’), or a designee 
of the CPCLO, will act on behalf of the 
Attorney General on all Privacy Act 
amendment appeals under this section, 
unless otherwise directed by the Attor-
ney General. 
(3) A Privacy Act amendment appeal 
ordinarily will not be adjudicated if 
the request becomes a matter of litiga-
tion. 
(4) A decision on a Privacy Act 
amendment appeal must be made in 
writing. A decision that upholds a com-
ponent’s adverse determination to a 
Privacy Act request for amendment or 
correction, in whole or in part, shall 
include a brief statement of the rea-
son(s) for the affirmance, including any 
Privacy Act exemption applied, wheth-
er the requester has a right to file a 
Statement of Disagreement, as de-
scribed in paragraph (g) of this section, 
and the requester’s statutory right to 
file a lawsuit. A decision that reverses 
or modifies a component’s adverse de-
termination to a Privacy Act request 
for amendment or correction, in whole 
or in part, shall notify the requester of 
the specific reversal or modification. 
The component shall thereafter further 
process the request, in accordance with 
the appeal decision, and respond di-
rectly to the requester, as appropriate. 
(g) Statement of Disagreement. If a re-
quest is subject to a Privacy Act re-
quest for amendment or correction, but 
the component’s adverse determination 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00326 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR317 
Department of Justice § 16.47 
to a Privacy Act request for amend-
ment or correction is upheld, in whole 
or in part, the requester has the right 
to file a Statement of Disagreement 
that states the requester’s reason(s) for 
disagreeing with the Department’s re-
fusal to grant the requester’s Privacy 
Act request for amendment or correc-
tion. Statements of Disagreement must 
be concise, must clearly identify each 
part of any record that is disputed, and 
should be no longer than one typed 
page for each fact disputed. A State-
ment of Disagreement must be sent to 
the component involved, which shall 
place it in the system of records in 
which the disputed record is main-
tained so that the Statement of Dis-
agreement supplements the disputed 
record. The component shall mark the 
disputed record to indicate that a 
Statement of Disagreement has been 
filed and where in the system of 
records it may be found. 
(h) Notification of amendment, correc-
tion, or Statement of Disagreement. With-
in thirty (30) working days of the 
amendment or correction of a record, 
the component that maintains the 
record shall notify all persons, organi-
zations, or agencies to which it pre-
viously disclosed the record, if an ac-
counting of that disclosure was made, 
that the record has been amended or 
corrected. If an individual has filed a 
Statement of Disagreement, the com-
ponent shall append a copy of it to the 
disputed record whenever the record is 
disclosed. The component may also ap-
pend a concise statement of its rea-
son(s) for denying the Privacy Act re-
quest for amendment or correction of 
the record. 
(i) Records not subject to amendment or 
correction. The following records are 
not subject to amendment or correc-
tion: 
(1) Copies of court records; 
(2) Transcripts of testimony given 
under oath or written statements made 
under oath; 
(3) Transcripts of grand jury pro-
ceedings, judicial proceedings, or 
quasi-judicial proceedings, which are 
the official record of those proceedings; 
(4) Presentence reports, and other 
records pertaining directly to such re-
ports originating with the courts; 
(5) Records in a system of records 
that have been exempted from amend-
ment and correction, pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552a(j) or (k), through the appli-
cable regulations in this subpart; and 
(6) Records not maintained in a sys-
tem of records. 
§ 16.47 Privacy Act requests for an ac-
counting of record disclosures. 
(a) Requirements for making a Privacy 
Act request for accounting of record dis-
closures. Except where accountings of 
disclosures are not required to be kept 
as stated in paragraph (c) of this sec-
tion, individuals may make a Privacy 
Act request for an accounting of record 
disclosures about themselves that have 
been made by the Department to an-
other person, organization, or agency. 
This accounting contains the date, na-
ture, and purpose of each disclosure, as 
well as the name and address of the 
person, organization, or agency to 
which the disclosure was made. If the 
requester believes that the same record 
is in more than one system of records, 
the requester should address their re-
quest to each component that the re-
quester believes maintains the record. 
For the quickest possible handling, re-
questers should mark both their re-
quest letters and envelopes ‘‘Privacy 
Act Accounting Request.’’ Requests 
must otherwise follow the procedures 
in § 16.41. 
(b) Processing Privacy Act requests for 
an accounting of record disclosures. Un-
less otherwise specified in this section, 
components shall process Privacy Act 
requests for accountings of record dis-
closures following the procedures in 
§§ 16.42 and 16.43. 
(c) Where accountings of record disclo-
sures are not required. Components are 
not required to provide Privacy Act ac-
countings of record disclosures to a re-
quester in cases in which they relate 
to: 
(1) Disclosures of information not 
subject to the Privacy Act; 
(2) Disclosures of records not main-
tained in a system of records; 
(3) Disclosures of records maintained 
in a system of records for which ac-
countings are not required to be kept, 
including disclosures to those officers 
and employees of the Department who 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00327 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR318 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.48 
have a need for the record in the per-
formance of their duties, 5 U.S.C. 
552a(b)(1), or disclosures that are re-
quired under the FOIA, 5 U.S.C. 
552a(b)(2); 
(4) Disclosures made to law enforce-
ment agencies for authorized law en-
forcement activities in response to 
written requests from those law en-
forcement agencies specifying the law 
enforcement activities for which the 
disclosures are sought; or 
(5) Disclosures made from systems of 
records that have been exempted from 
the accounting of record disclosure re-
quirements pursuant to the Privacy 
Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) or (k), through the 
applicable regulations in this subpart. 
(d) Appeals. A requester may appeal a 
component’s refusal to grant a Privacy 
Act request for an accounting of record 
disclosures in the same manner, and 
under the same procedures, as a Pri-
vacy Act access appeal, as set forth in 
§ 16.45. 
§ 16.48 Preservation of records. 
Each component shall preserve all 
correspondence pertaining to the re-
quests that it receives under this sub-
part, as well as copies of all requested 
records, until disposition or destruc-
tion is authorized by title 44 of the 
United States Code or by the National 
Archives and Records Administration’s 
General Records Schedule 4.2. Records 
shall not be disposed of while they are 
the subject of a pending request, ap-
peal, or lawsuit under the Privacy Act. 
§ 16.49 Fees. 
Components shall charge fees for du-
plication of records under the Privacy 
Act in the same way in which they 
charge duplication fees for responding 
to FOIA requests under § 16.10. No 
search or review fee may be charged for 
any record unless the record has been 
exempted from access pursuant to ex-
emptions enumerated in the Privacy 
Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) or (k)(2). 
§ 16.50 Notice of compulsory legal 
process and emergency disclosures. 
(a) Legal process disclosures. Compo-
nents shall make reasonable efforts to 
provide notice to an individual whose 
record is disclosed under compulsory 
legal process, such as an order by a 
court of competent jurisdiction, and 
such process becomes a matter of pub-
lic record. Notice shall be given within 
a reasonable time after the compo-
nent’s receipt of process, except that in 
a case in which such process is not a 
matter of public record, the notice 
shall be given within a reasonable time 
only after such process becomes public. 
Where an individual, or the individual’s 
legal counsel, has not otherwise re-
ceived notice of the disclosure in the 
litigation process, notice shall be 
mailed to the individual’s last known 
address and shall contain a copy of 
such process and a description of the 
information disclosed. Notice shall not 
be required if disclosure is made from a 
system of records that has been ex-
empted from the notice requirement. 
(b) Emergency disclosures. Upon dis-
closing a record pertaining to an indi-
vidual made under compelling cir-
cumstances affecting health or safety, 
the component shall notify that indi-
vidual of the disclosure. This notice 
shall be mailed to the individual’s last 
known address and shall state the na-
ture of the information disclosed; the 
person, organization, or agency to 
which it was disclosed; the date of dis-
closure; and the compelling cir-
cumstances justifying the disclosure. 
§ 16.51 Security of systems of records. 
(a) Each component shall establish 
and maintain administrative, tech-
nical, and physical controls consistent 
with applicable Department and Gov-
ernment-wide laws, regulations, poli-
cies, and standards, to ensure the secu-
rity and confidentiality of records, and 
to protect against reasonably antici-
pated threats or hazards to their secu-
rity or integrity, including against any 
reasonably anticipated unauthorized 
access, use, or disclosure, which could 
result in substantial harm, embarrass-
ment, inconvenience, or unfairness to 
individuals about whom information is 
maintained. The stringency of these 
controls shall correspond to the sensi-
tivity of the records that the controls 
protect. At a minimum, each compo-
nent shall maintain administrative, 
technical, or physical controls to en-
sure that: 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00328 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR319 
Department of Justice § 16.53 
(1) Records are protected from unau-
thorized access, including unauthorized 
public access; 
(2) The physical area in which 
records are maintained is supervised or 
appropriately secured to prevent unau-
thorized persons from having access to 
them; 
(3) Records are protected from dam-
age, loss, or unauthorized alteration or 
destruction; and 
(4) Records are not disclosed to unau-
thorized persons or to authorized per-
sons for unauthorized purposes in ei-
ther oral or written form. 
(b) Each component shall establish 
procedures that restrict access to 
records to only those individuals with-
in the Department who must have ac-
cess to those records in order to per-
form their duties and that prevent in-
advertent disclosure of records. 
(c) The CPCLO, or a designee of the 
CPCLO, may impose additional admin-
istrative, technical, or physical con-
trols to protect records in consultation 
with the Chief Information Officer and 
the Director of the Office of Records 
Management Policy. 
§ 16.52 Contracts for the operation of 
record systems. 
(a) Any approved contract for the op-
eration of a system of records shall 
contain the standard contract terms 
and conditions in accordance with the 
Federal Acquisition Regulations in 48 
CFR chapter 28 and may also contain 
additional privacy-related terms and 
conditions to ensure compliance with 
the requirements of the Privacy Act 
for that system of records. The con-
tracting component will be responsible 
for ensuring that the contractor com-
plies with these contract requirements. 
(b) The CPCLO, a designee of the 
CPCLO, or contracting components 
may impose additional contract re-
quirements to further protect records. 
§ 16.53 Use and collection of Social Se-
curity account numbers. 
(a) Purpose and scope. This section 
contains the rules that the Department 
of Justice follows in handling Social 
Security account numbers in accord-
ance with section 7 of the Privacy Act, 
and with the Social Security Fraud 
Prevention Act. 
(b) Definitions. For the purposes of 
this section: 
Mail means any physical package 
sent to entities or individuals outside 
the Department through the United 
States Postal Service or any other ex-
press mail carrier; and 
Necessary includes only those cir-
cumstances in which a component 
would be unable to comply, in whole or 
in part, with a legal, regulatory, or pol-
icy requirement if prohibited from 
mailing the full Social Security ac-
count number. Including the full Social 
Security account number of an indi-
vidual on a document sent by mail is 
not ‘‘necessary’’ if a legal, regulatory, 
or policy requirement could be satis-
fied by either partially redacting the 
Social Security account number in ac-
cordance with paragraph (d)(3) of this 
section, or entirely removing the So-
cial Security account number. 
(c) Denial of rights, benefits, or privi-
leges. Components are prohibited from 
denying any right, benefit, or privilege 
provided by law to an individual be-
cause of such individual’s refusal to 
disclose the individual’s Social Secu-
rity account number. This paragraph 
(c) shall not apply with respect to: 
(1) Any disclosure that is required by 
Federal statute; or 
(2) The disclosure of a Social Secu-
rity account number to any Federal, 
State, or local agency maintaining a 
system of records in existence and op-
erating before January 1, 1975, if such 
disclosure was required under statute 
or regulation adopted prior to such 
date to verify the identity of an indi-
vidual. 
(d) Restriction of Social Security ac-
count numbers on documents sent by mail. 
(1) A component shall not include the 
full Social Security account number of 
an individual on any document sent by 
mail, unless the inclusion of the Social 
Security account number on the docu-
ment is necessary. Unless the Attorney 
General directs otherwise, the CPCLO 
is authorized to assist components in 
implementing this paragraph (d), in-
cluding determining whether inclusion 
of the Social Security account number 
on a document sent by mail is nec-
essary. 
(2) If the use of the full Social Secu-
rity account number on a document 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00329 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR320 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.54 
sent by mail is necessary, the compo-
nent sending the document shall imple-
ment appropriate administrative, tech-
nical, and physical safeguards to en-
sure a reasonable level of security 
against unauthorized access to, and 
use, disclosure, disruption, modifica-
tion, or destruction of, the documents 
sent by mail. 
(3) Where feasible, components 
should partially redact the Social Se-
curity account number on any docu-
ment sent by mail by including no 
more than the last four digits of the 
Social Security account number. Com-
ponents should prioritize technical 
methods to redact Social Security ac-
count numbers. 
(4) Components are prohibited from 
placing a Social Security account num-
ber, whether full or partially redacted, 
on the outside of any mail. 
(e) Employee awareness. Each compo-
nent shall ensure that employees au-
thorized to collect Social Security ac-
count numbers are made aware of the 
following: 
(1) The requirements of paragraphs 
(c) and (d) of this section; 
(2) That individuals requested to pro-
vide their Social Security account 
numbers must be informed of: 
(i) Whether providing Social Security 
account numbers is mandatory or vol-
untary; 
(ii) Any statutory or regulatory au-
thority that authorizes the collection 
of Social Security account numbers; 
and 
(iii) The uses that will be made of the 
Social Security account numbers; and 
(3) That the Department may have 
other regulations or polices regulating 
the use, maintenance, or disclosure of 
Social Security account numbers by 
which employees must abide. 
§ 16.54 Employee standards of conduct. 
Each component shall inform its em-
ployees and any contractors involved 
in developing or maintaining a system 
of records of the provisions of the Pri-
vacy Act, including the Privacy Act’s 
civil liability and criminal penalty pro-
visions. Unless otherwise permitted by 
law, employees and contractors of the 
Department shall: 
(a) Collect from individuals only the 
information that is relevant and nec-
essary to discharge the responsibilities 
of the Department; 
(b) Collect information about an indi-
vidual directly from that individual 
whenever practicable; 
(c) Inform each individual asked to 
supply information for a record per-
taining to that individual of: 
(1) The legal authority to collect the 
information and whether providing it 
is mandatory or voluntary; 
(2) The principal purpose for which 
the Department intends to use the in-
formation; 
(3) The routine uses the Department 
may make of the information; and 
(4) The effects on the individual, if 
any, of not providing the information; 
(d) Ensure that the component main-
tains no system of records without 
public notice and that it notifies appro-
priate Department officials of the ex-
istence or development of any system 
of records that is not the subject of a 
current or planned public notice; 
(e) Maintain all records that are used 
by the Department in making any de-
termination about an individual with 
such accuracy, relevance, timeliness, 
and completeness as is reasonably nec-
essary to ensure fairness to the indi-
vidual in the determination; 
(f) Except as to disclosures made to 
an agency or made under the FOIA, 
make reasonable efforts, prior to dis-
seminating any record about an indi-
vidual, to ensure that the record is ac-
curate, relevant, timely, and complete; 
(g) Maintain no record describing 
how an individual exercises the indi-
vidual’s First Amendment rights, un-
less maintaining the record is ex-
pressly authorized by statute or by the 
individual about whom the record is 
maintained, or is pertinent to and 
within the scope of an authorized law 
enforcement activity; 
(h) When required by the Privacy 
Act, maintain an accounting in the 
specified form of all disclosures of 
records by the Department to persons, 
organizations, or agencies; 
(i) Maintain and use records with 
care to prevent the loss or the unau-
thorized or inadvertent disclosure of a 
record to anyone; 
(j) Notify the appropriate Depart-
ment official of any record that con-
tains information that the Privacy Act 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00330 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR321 
Department of Justice § 16.70 
does not permit the Department to 
maintain; and 
(k) Read, acknowledge, and agree to 
abide by the Department of Justice 
rules of behavior for accessing, col-
lecting, using, and maintaining Depart-
ment information. 
§ 16.55 Other rights and services. 
Nothing in this subpart shall be con-
strued to entitle any person, as of 
right, to any service or to the disclo-
sure of any record to which such person 
is not entitled under the Privacy Act, 
the Social Security Fraud Reduction 
Act, or the Judicial Redress Act. 
Subpart E—Exemption of Records 
Systems Under the Privacy Act 
SOURCE: Order No. 645–76, 41 FR 12640, Mar. 
26, 1976, unless otherwise noted. 
§ 16.70 Exemption of the Office of the 
Attorney General System—limited 
access. 
(a) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c) (3) and (4); 
(d); (e) (1), (2) and (3), (e)(4) (G) and (H), 
(e)(5); and (g): 
(1) General Files System of the Office 
of the Attorney General (JUSTICE/ 
OAG–001). 
These exemptions apply only to the ex-
tent that information in the system is 
subject to exemption pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552a (j)(2), (k)(1), (k)(2), and 
(k)(5). 
(b) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because 
making available to a record subject 
the accounting of disclosures from 
records concerning him/her would re-
veal investigative interest on the part 
of the Department of Justice as well as 
the recipient agency. This would per-
mit record subjects to impede the in-
vestigation, e.g., destroy evidence, in-
timidate potential witnesses, or flee 
the area to avoid inquiries or apprehen-
sion by law enforcement personnel. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) because 
this system is exempt from the access 
provisions of subsection (d) pursuant to 
subsections (j) and (k) of the Privacy 
Act. 
(3) From subsection (d) because the 
records contained in this system relate 
to official Federal investigations. Indi-
vidual access to these records might 
compromise ongoing investigations, re-
veal confidential informants or con-
stitute unwarranted invasions of the 
personal privacy of third parties who 
are involved in a certain investigation. 
Amendment of the records would inter-
fere with ongoing criminal law enforce-
ment proceedings and impose an im-
possible administrative burden by re-
quiring criminal investigations to be 
continuously reinvestigated. 
(4) From subsections (e) (1) and (5) be-
cause in the course of law enforcement 
investigations, information may occa-
sionally be obtained or introduced the 
accuracy of which is unclear or which 
is not strictly relevant or necessary to 
a specific investigation. In the inter-
ests of effective law enforcement, it is 
appropriate to retain all information 
that may aid in establishing patterns 
of criminal activity. Moreover, it 
would impede the specific investigative 
process if it were necessary to assure 
the relevance, accuracy, timeliness and 
completeness of all information ob-
tained. 
(5) From subsection (e)(2) because in 
a law enforcement investigation the re-
quirement that information be col-
lected to the greatest extent possible 
from the subject individual would 
present a serious impediment to law 
enforcement in that the subject of the 
investigation would be informed of the 
existence of the investigation and 
would therefore be able to avoid detec-
tion, apprehension, or legal obligations 
of duties. 
(6) From subsection (e)(3) because to 
comply with the requirements of this 
subsection during the course of an in-
vestigation could impede the informa-
tion gathering process, thus hampering 
the investigation. 
(7) From subsections (e)(4) (G) and 
(H) because this system is exempt from 
the access provisions of subsection (d) 
pursuant to subsections (j) and (k) of 
the Privacy Act. 
(8) From subsection (g) because this 
system is exempt from the access and 
amendment provisions of subsection (d) 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00331 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR322 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.71 
pursuant to subsections (j) and (k) of 
the Privacy Act. 
[Order No. 31–85, 51 FR 751, Jan. 8, 1986] 
§ 16.71 Exemption of the Office of the 
Deputy Attorney General System— 
limited access. 
(a) The following systems of records 
and exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(1) and 
(e)(1): 
(1) Presidential Appointee Candidate 
Records System (JUSTICE/DAG–006). 
(2) Presidential Appointee Records 
System (JUSTICE/DAG–007). 
(3) Special Candidates for Presi-
dential Appointments Records System 
(JUSTICE/DAG–008). 
(4) Miscellaneous Attorney Personnel 
Records System (JUSTICE/DAG–011). 
These exemptions apply only to the ex-
tent that information in these systems 
is subject to exemption pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552a(k)(5). 
(b) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (d)(1) because 
many persons are contacted who, with-
out an assurance of anonymity, refuse 
to provide information concerning a 
candidate for a Presidential appointee 
or Department attorney position. Ac-
cess could reveal the identity of the 
source of the information and con-
stitute a breach of the promise of con-
fidentiality on the part of the Depart-
ment of Justice. Such breaches ulti-
mately would restrict the free flow of 
information vital to a determination of 
a candidate’s qualifications and suit-
ability. 
(2) From subsection (e)(1) because in 
the collection of information for inves-
tigative and evaluative purposes, it is 
impossible to determine in advance 
what exact information may be of as-
sistance in determining the qualifica-
tions and suitability of a candidate. In-
formation which may appear irrele-
vant, when combined with other seem-
ingly irrelevant information, can on 
occasion provide a composite picture of 
a candidate for a position which assists 
in determining whether that candidate 
should be nominated for appointment. 
(c) The General Files System of the 
Office of the Deputy Attorney General 
(JUSTICE/DAG–013) is exempt from 5 
U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (4); (d); (e)(1), (2), 
(3) and (5); and (g). 
(d) The exemptions for the General 
Files System apply only to the extent 
that information is subject to exemp-
tion pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), 
(k)(1), (k)(2) and (k)(5). 
(e) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because 
making available to a record subject 
the accounting of disclosures from 
records concerning him/her could re-
veal investigative interest on the part 
of the Department of Justice, as well 
as the recipient agency. This would 
permit record subjects to impede the 
investigation, e.g., destroy evidence, 
intimidate potential witnesses, or flee 
the area to avoid inquiries or apprehen-
sion by law enforcement personnel. 
Further, making available to a record 
subject the accounting of disclosures 
could reveal the identity of a confiden-
tial source. In addition, release of an 
accounting of disclosures from the 
General Files System may reveal infor-
mation that is properly classified pur-
suant to Executive Order 12356, and 
thereby cause damage to the national 
security. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) because 
these systems are exempt from the ac-
cess provisions of subsection (d) pursu-
ant to subsections (j) and (k) of the 
Privacy Act. 
(3) From subsection (d) because the 
records contained in these systems re-
late to official Federal investigations. 
Individual access to these records could 
compromise ongoing investigations, re-
veal confidential informants and/or 
sensitive investigative techniques used 
in particular investigations, or con-
stitute unwarranted invasions of the 
personal privacy of third parties who 
are involved in a certain investigation. 
In addition, release of records from the 
General Files System may reveal infor-
mation that is properly classified pur-
suant to Executive Order 12356, and 
thereby cause damage to the national 
security. Amendment of the records in 
either of these systems would interfere 
with ongoing law enforcement pro-
ceedings and impose an impossible ad-
ministrative burden by requiring law 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00332 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR323 
Department of Justice § 16.72 
enforcement investigations to be con-
tinuously reinvestigated. 
(4) From subsections (e)(1) and (e)(5) 
because in the course of law enforce-
ment investigations information may 
occasionally be obtained or introduced 
the accuracy of which is unclear or 
which is not strictly relevant or nec-
essary to a specific investigation. In 
the interests of effective law enforce-
ment, it is appropriate to retain all in-
formation that may aid in establishing 
patterns of criminal activity. More-
over, it would impede any investigative 
process, whether civil or criminal, if it 
were necessary to assure the relevance, 
accuracy, timeliness and completeness 
of all information obtained. 
(5) From subsection (e)(2) because in 
a law enforcement investigation the re-
quirement that information be col-
lected to the greatest extent possible 
from the subject individual would 
present a serious impediment to law 
enforcement in that the subject of the 
investigation would be informed of the 
existence of the investigation and may 
therefore be able to avoid detection, 
apprehension, or legal obligations or 
duties. 
(6) From subsection (e)(3) because to 
comply with the requirements of this 
subsection during the course of an in-
vestigation could impede the informa-
tion gathering process, thus hampering 
the investigation. 
(7) From subsection (g) because these 
systems of records are exempt from the 
access and amendment provisions of 
subsection (d) pursuant to subsections 
(j) and (k) of the Privacy Act. 
[Order No. 57–91, 56 FR 58305, Nov. 19, 1991, as 
amended by Order No. 006–2013, 78 FR 69754, 
Nov. 21, 2013] 
§ 16.72 Exemption of Office of the As-
sociate Attorney General System— 
limited access. 
(a) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c) (3) and (4); 
(d); (e)(1), (2), (3) and (5); and (g): 
(1) General Files System of the Office 
of the Associate Attorney General 
(JUSTICE/AAG–001). 
These exemptions apply only to the ex-
tent that information in the system is 
subject to exemption pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), (k)(1), (k)(2) and (k)(5). 
(b) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because 
making available to a record subject 
the accounting of disclosures from 
records concerning him/her could re-
veal investigative interest on the part 
of the Department of Justice, as well 
as the recipient agency. This would 
permit record subjects to impede the 
investigation, e.g., destroy evidence, 
intimidate potential witnesses, or flee 
the area to avoid inquiries or apprehen-
sion by law enforcement personnel. 
Further, making available to a record 
subject the accounting of disclosures 
could reveal the identity of a confiden-
tial source. In addition, release of an 
accounting of disclosures may reveal 
information that is properly classified 
pursuant to Executive Order 12356, and 
thereby cause damage to the national 
security. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) because 
this system is exempt from the access 
provisions of subsection (d) pursuant to 
subsections (j)(2), (k)(1), (k)(2) and 
(k)(5) of the Privacy Act. 
(3) From subsection (d) because the 
records contained in this system relate 
to official Federal investigations. Indi-
vidual access to these records could 
compromise ongoing investigations, re-
veal confidential informants and/or 
sensitive investigative techniques used 
in particular investigations, or con-
stitute unwarranted invasions of the 
personal privacy of third parties who 
are involved in a certain investigation. 
In addition, release of these records 
may reveal information that is prop-
erly classified pursuant to Executive 
Order 12356, and thereby cause damage 
to the national security. Amendment 
of the records in this system would 
interfere with ongoing law enforcement 
proceedings and impose an impossible 
administrative burden by requiring law 
enforcement investigations to be con-
tinuously reinvestigated. 
(4) From subsections (e)(1) and (e)(5) 
because in the course of law enforce-
ment investigations information may 
occasionally be obtained or introduced 
the accuracy of which is unclear or 
which is not strictly relevant or nec-
essary to a specific investigation. In 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00333 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR324 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.73 
the interests of effective law enforce-
ment, it is appropriate to retain all in-
formation that may aid in establishing 
patterns of criminal activity. More-
over, it would impede any investigative 
process, whether civil or criminal, if it 
were necessary to assure the relevance, 
accuracy, timeliness and completeness 
of all information obtained. 
(5) From subsection (e)(2) because in 
a law enforcement investigation the re-
quirement that information be col-
lected to the greatest extent possible 
from the subject individual would 
present a serious impediment to law 
enforcement in that the subject of the 
investigation would be informed of the 
existence of the investigation and may 
therefore be able to avoid detection, 
apprehension, or legal obligations or 
duties. 
(6) From subsection (e)(3) because to 
comply with the requirements of this 
subsection during the course of an in-
vestigation could impede the informa-
tion gathering process, thus hampering 
the investigation. 
(7) From subsection (g) because this 
system of records is exempt from the 
access and amendment provisions of 
subsection (d) pursuant to subsections 
(j)(2), (k)(1), (k)(2) and (k)(5) of the Pri-
vacy Act. 
[Order No. 57–91, 56 FR 58305, Nov. 19, 1991] 
§ 16.73 Exemption of Office of Legal 
Policy Systems. 
(a) The Judicial Nominations Files 
(JUSTICE/OLP–002) system of records 
is exempt from subsections (c)(3); (d); 
(e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I); and (f) of 
the Privacy Act, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
552a(k)(1), (k)(2), (k)(5), and (k)(6). The 
exemptions in this paragraph (a) apply 
only to the extent that information in 
this system of records is subject to an 
exemption, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
552a(k). Where compliance would not 
appear to interfere with or adversely 
affect the Office of Legal Policy’s 
(OLP’s) processes, OLP may waive the 
applicable exemption. 
(b) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections in paragraph (a) of this sec-
tion are justified for the following rea-
sons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3), the re-
quirement that an accounting be made 
available to the named subject of a 
record, because release of disclosure 
accountings could alert the subject of 
an investigation and/or evaluation to 
the extent of an investigation and/or 
evaluation. Such a disclosure could 
also reveal investigative interests by 
not only OLP, but also other recipient 
agencies or components. Since release 
of such information to the subjects of 
an investigation would provide them 
with significant information con-
cerning the nature of the investigation 
and/or evaluation, release could result 
in the destruction of documentary evi-
dence, improper influencing of wit-
nesses, endangerment of the physical 
safety of confidential sources, wit-
nesses, and law enforcement personnel, 
the fabrication of testimony, and other 
activities that could impede or com-
promise the investigation and/or eval-
uation. In addition, providing the indi-
vidual an accounting for each disclo-
sure could result in the release of prop-
erly classified information which 
would compromise the national defense 
or disrupt foreign policy. 
(2) From subsection (d), the access 
and amendment provisions, because 
many persons are contacted who, with-
out an assurance of anonymity, refuse 
to provide information concerning the 
subject of an investigation and/or eval-
uation. Access could reveal the iden-
tity of the source of the information 
and constitute a breach of the prom-
ised confidentiality on the part of the 
Department. Such breaches ultimately 
would restrict the free flow of informa-
tion vital to the determination of a 
candidate’s qualifications and suit-
ability, among other determinations. 
The Department also relies on certain 
examination materials to assess and 
evaluate an individual’s qualifications 
for an applicable position. Access and/ 
or amendment to such material could 
reveal information about the examina-
tion and vetting process and could 
compromise its objectivity and/or fair-
ness. Access and/or amendment to such 
material could also inappropriately ad-
vantage future candidates with knowl-
edge of the examination materials. Fi-
nally, providing the individual access 
or amendment rights could result in 
the release of properly classified infor-
mation which would compromise the 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00334 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR325 
Department of Justice § 16.73 
national defense or disrupt foreign pol-
icy. 
(3) From subsection (e)(1), because in 
the collection of information for inves-
tigative and evaluative purposes, it is 
impossible to determine in advance 
what exact information may be of as-
sistance in determining the qualifica-
tions and suitability of the subject of 
an investigation and/or evaluation. In-
formation which may seem irrelevant, 
when combined with other seemingly 
irrelevant information, can on occa-
sion provide a composite picture of a 
candidate which assists in determining 
whether that candidate should be nom-
inated for appointment. Relevance and 
necessity are questions of judgment 
and timing, and it is only after the in-
formation is evaluated that the rel-
evance and necessity of such informa-
tion can be established. In interviewing 
individuals or obtaining other forms of 
information during OLP processes, in-
formation may be supplied to OLP 
which relates to matters incidental to 
the primary purpose of OLP’s proc-
esses, but also relate to matters under 
the investigative jurisdiction of an-
other agency. Such information cannot 
readily be segregated. 
(4) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and 
(H), and subsection (f), because this 
system is exempt from the access and 
amendment provisions of subsection 
(d). 
(c) The General Files System of the 
Office of Legal Policy (JUSTICE/OLP– 
003) system of records is exempt from 
subsections 552a(c)(3) and (4); (d); (e)(1), 
(2) and (3), (e)(4)(G) and (H), and (e)(5); 
and (g) of the Privacy Act, pursuant to 
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), (k)(1), (k)(2) and 
(k)(5). The exemptions in this para-
graph (c) apply only to the extent that 
information in this system is subject 
to exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
552(j), (k). Where compliance would not 
appear to interfere with or adversely 
affect OLP’s processes, the applicable 
exemption may be waived by OLP. 
(d) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections in paragraph (c) of this sec-
tion are justified for the following rea-
sons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because 
making available to a record subject 
the accounting of disclosures from 
records concerning him/her would re-
veal investigative interest on the part 
of the Department as well as the recipi-
ent agency. This would permit record 
subjects to impede the investigation, 
e.g., destroy evidence, intimidate po-
tential witnesses, or flee the area to 
avoid inquiries or apprehension by law 
enforcement personnel. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) because 
this system is exempt from the access 
provisions of subsection (d) pursuant to 
subsections (j) and (k) of the Privacy 
Act. 
(3) From subsection (d) because the 
records contained in this system relate 
to official Federal investigations. Indi-
vidual access to these records might 
compromise ongoing investigations, re-
veal confidential informants, or con-
stitute unwarranted invasions of the 
personal privacy of third parties who 
are involved in a certain investigation. 
Amendment of records would interfere 
with ongoing criminal law enforcement 
proceedings and impose an impossible 
administrative burden by requiring 
criminal investigations to be continu-
ously reinvestigated. 
(4) From subsections (e)(1) and (5) be-
cause in the course of law enforcement 
investigations, information may occa-
sionally be obtained or introduced the 
accuracy of which is unclear or which 
is not strictly relevant or necessary to 
a specific investigation. In the inter-
ests of effective law enforcement, it is 
appropriate to retain all information 
since it may aid in establishing pat-
terns of criminal activity. Moreover, it 
would impede the specific investigation 
process if it were necessary to assure 
the relevance, accuracy, timeliness and 
completeness of all information ob-
tained. 
(5) From subsections (e)(2) because in 
a law enforcement investigation the re-
quirement that information be col-
lected to the greatest extent possible 
from the subject individual would 
present a serious impediment to law 
enforcement in that the subject of the 
investigation would be informed of the 
existence of the investigation and 
would therefore be able to avoid detec-
tion, apprehension, or legal obligations 
and duties. 
(6) From subsection (e)(3) because to 
comply with the requirements of this 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00335 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR326 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.74 
subsection during the course of an in-
vestigation could impede the informa-
tion gathering process, thus hampering 
the investigation. 
(7) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) 
because this system is exempt from the 
access provisions of subsection (d) pur-
suant to subsections (j) and (k) of the 
Privacy Act. 
(8) From subsection (g) because this 
system is exempt from the access and 
amendment provisions of subsection (d) 
pursuant to subsections (j) and (k) of 
the Privacy Act. 
[Order No. 009–2021, 86 FR 54369, Oct. 1, 2021] 
§ 16.74 Exemption of National Security 
Division Systems—limited access. 
(a) The following system of records is 
exempted from subsections (c)(3) and 
(4); (d); (e)(1), (2), (3), (4)(G),(H) and (I), 
(5) and (8); (f); (g); and (h) of the Pri-
vacy Act pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), 
(k)(1), (2) and (5): Foreign Intelligence 
and Counterintelligence Records Sys-
tem (JUSTICE/NSD–001). These exemp-
tions apply only to the extent that in-
formation in the system is subject to 
exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
552a(j)(2), (k)(1), (2), and (5). 
(b) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) Subsection (c)(3). To provide the 
target of a surveillance or collection 
activity with the disclosure accounting 
records concerning him or her would 
hinder authorized United States intel-
ligence activities by informing that in-
dividual of the existence, nature, or 
scope of information that is properly 
classified pursuant to Executive Order 
12958, as amended, and thereby cause 
damage to the national security. 
(2) Subsection (c)(4). This subsection is 
inapplicable to the extent that an ex-
emption is being claimed for sub-
section (d). 
(3) Subsection (d)(1). Disclosure of for-
eign intelligence and counterintel-
ligence information would interfere 
with collection activities, reveal the 
identity of confidential sources, and 
cause damage to the national security 
of the United States. To ensure unham-
pered and effective collection and anal-
ysis of foreign intelligence and coun-
terintelligence information, disclosure 
must be precluded. 
(4) Subsection (d)(2). Amendment of 
the records would interfere with ongo-
ing intelligence activities thereby 
causing damage to the national secu-
rity. 
(5) Subsections (d)(3) and (4). These 
subsections are inapplicable to the ex-
tent exemption is claimed from (d)(1) 
and (2). 
(6) Subsection (e)(1). It is often impos-
sible to determine in advance if intel-
ligence records contained in this sys-
tem are relevant and necessary, but, in 
the interests of national security, it is 
necessary to retain this information to 
aid in establishing patterns of activity 
and provide intelligence leads. 
(7) Subsection (e)(2). Although this of-
fice does not conduct investigations, 
the collection efforts of agencies that 
supply information to this office would 
be thwarted if the agencies were re-
quired to collect information with the 
subject’s knowledge. 
(8) Subsection (e)(3). To inform indi-
viduals as required by this subsection 
could reveal the existence of collection 
activity and compromise national se-
curity. For example, a target could, 
once made aware that collection activ-
ity exists, alter his or her manner of 
engaging in intelligence or terrorist 
activities in order to avoid detection. 
(9) Subsections (e)(4)(G), (H) and (I), 
and (f). These subsections are inappli-
cable to the extent that this system is 
exempt from the access provisions of 
subsection (d). 
(10) Subsection (e)(5). It is often im-
possible to determine in advance if in-
telligence records contained in this 
system are accurate, relevant, timely 
and complete, but, in the interests of 
national security, it is necessary to re-
tain this information to aid in estab-
lishing patterns of activity and pro-
viding intelligence leads. 
(11) Subsection (e)(8). Serving notice 
could give persons sufficient warning 
to evade intelligence collection and 
anti-terrorism efforts. 
(12) Subsections (g) and (h). These sub-
sections are inapplicable to the extent 
that this system is exempt from other 
specific subsections of the Privacy Act. 
[Order No. 023–2007, 72 FR 44382, Aug. 8, 2007] 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00336 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR327 
Department of Justice § 16.75 
§ 16.75 Exemption of the Office of the 
Inspector General Systems/Limited 
Access. 
(a) The following system of records is 
exempted pursuant to the provisions of 
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) from subsections (c) 
(3) and (4), (d), (e)(1), (2), (3), (5), and (8), 
and (g) of 5 U.S.C. 552a. In addition, the 
following system of records is exempt-
ed pursuant to the provisions of 5 
U.S.C. 552a(k)(1) and (k)(2) from sub-
sections (c)(3), (d), and (e)(1) of 5 U.S.C. 
552a: 
(1) Office of the Inspector General In-
vestigative Records (JUSTICE/OIG– 
001). 
These exemptions apply only to the ex-
tent that information in this system is 
subject to exemption pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552a (j)(2), (k)(1) and (k)(2). 
Where compliance would not appear to 
interfere with or adversely affect the 
law enforcement process, and/or where 
it may be appropriate to permit indi-
viduals to contest the accuracy of the 
information collected, e.g., public 
source materials, the applicable ex-
emption may be waived, either par-
tially or totally, by the Office of the 
Inspector General (OIG). 
(b) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because re-
lease of disclosure accounting could 
alert the subject of an investigation of 
an actual or potential criminal, civil, 
or regulatory violation to the existence 
of the investigation and the fact that 
they are subjects of the investigation, 
and reveal investigative interest by not 
only the OIG, but also by the recipient 
agency. Since release of such informa-
tion to the subjects of an investigation 
would provide them with significant in-
formation concerning the nature of the 
investigation, release could result in 
the destruction of documentary evi-
dence, improper influencing of wit-
nesses, endangerment of the physical 
safety of confidential sources, wit-
nesses, and law enforcement personnel, 
the fabrication of testimony, flight of 
the subject from the area, and other 
activities that could impede or com-
promise the investigation. In addition, 
accounting for each disclosure could 
result in the release of properly classi-
fied information which would com-
promise the national defense or disrupt 
foreign policy. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) because 
this system is exempt from the access 
provisions of subsection (d) pursuant to 
subsections (j) and (k) of the Privacy 
Act. 
(3) From the access and amendment 
provisions of subsection (d) because ac-
cess to the records contained in this 
system of records could inform the sub-
ject of an investigation of an actual or 
potential criminal, civil, or regulatory 
violation, of the existence of that in-
vestigation; of the nature and scope of 
the information and evidence obtained 
as to his activities; of the identity of 
confidential sources, witnesses, and 
law enforcement personnel, and of in-
formation that may enable the subject 
to avoid detection or apprehension. 
These factors would present a serious 
impediment to effective law enforce-
ment where they prevent the successful 
completion of the investigation, endan-
ger the physical safety of confidential 
sources, witnesses, and law enforce-
ment personnel, and/or lead to the im-
proper influencing of witnesses, the de-
struction of evidence, or the fabrica-
tion of testimony. In addition, grant-
ing access to such information could 
disclose security-sensitive or confiden-
tial business information or informa-
tion that would constitute an unwar-
ranted invasion of the personal privacy 
of third parties. Finally, access to the 
records could result in the release of 
properly classified information which 
would compromise the national defense 
or disrupt foreign policy. Amendment 
of the records would interfere with on-
going investigations and law enforce-
ment activities and impose an impos-
sible administrative burden by requir-
ing investigations to be continuously 
reinvestigated. 
(4) From subsection (e)(1) because the 
application of this provision could im-
pair investigations and interfere with 
the law enforcement responsibilities of 
the OIG for the following reasons: 
(i) It is not possible to detect rel-
evance or necessity of specific informa-
tion in the early stages of a civil, 
criminal or other law enforcement in-
vestigation, case, or matter, including 
investigations in which use is made of 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00337 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR328 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.75 
properly classified information. Rel-
evance and necessity are questions of 
judgment and timing, and it is only 
after the information is evaluated that 
the relevance and necessity of such in-
formation can be established. 
(ii) During the course of any inves-
tigation, the OIG may obtain informa-
tion concerning actual or potential vio-
lations of laws other than those within 
the scope of its jurisdiction. In the in-
terest of effective law enforcement, the 
OIG should retain this information, as 
it may aid in establishing patterns of 
criminal activity, and can provide val-
uable leads for Federal and other law 
enforcement agencies. 
(iii) In interviewing individuals or 
obtaining other forms of evidence dur-
ing an investigation, information may 
be supplied to an investigator which re-
lates to matters incidental to the pri-
mary purpose of the investigation but 
which may relate also to matters under 
the investigative jurisdiction of an-
other agency. Such information cannot 
readily be segregated. 
(5) From subsection (e)(2) because, in 
some instances, the application of this 
provision would present a serious im-
pediment to law enforcement for the 
following reasons: 
(i) The subject of an investigation 
would be placed on notice as to the ex-
istence of an investigation and would 
therefore be able to avoid detection or 
apprehension, to improperly influence 
witnesses, to destroy evidence, or to 
fabricate testimony. 
(ii) In certain circumstances the sub-
ject of an investigation cannot be re-
quired to provide information to inves-
tigators, and information relating to a 
subject’s illegal acts, violations of 
rules of conduct, or any other mis-
conduct must be obtained from other 
sources. 
(iii) In any investigation it is nec-
essary to obtain evidence from a vari-
ety of sources other than the subject of 
the investigation in order to verify the 
evidence necessary for successful liti-
gation. 
(6) From subsection (e)(3) because the 
application of this provision would pro-
vide the subject of an investigation 
with substantial information which 
could impede or compromise the inves-
tigation. Providing such notice to a 
subject of an investigation could inter-
fere with an undercover investigation 
by revealing its existence, and could 
endanger the physical safety of con-
fidential sources, witnesses, and inves-
tigators by revealing their identities. 
(7) From subsection (e)(5) because the 
application of this provision would pre-
vent the collection of any data not 
shown to be accurate, relevant, timely, 
and complete at the moment it is col-
lected. In the collection of information 
for law enforcement purposes, it is im-
possible to determine in advance what 
information is accurate, relevant, 
timely, and complete. Material which 
may seem unrelated, irrelevant, or in-
complete when collected may take on 
added meaning or significance as an in-
vestigation progresses. The restrictions 
of this provision could interfere with 
the preparation of a complete inves-
tigative report, and thereby impede ef-
fective law enforcement. 
(8) From subsection (e)(8) because the 
application of this provision could pre-
maturely reveal an ongoing criminal 
investigation to the subject of the in-
vestigation, and could reveal investiga-
tive techniques, procedures, or evi-
dence. 
(9) From subsection (g) to the extent 
that this system is exempt from the ac-
cess and amendment provisions of sub-
section (d) pursuant to subsections 
(j)(2) and (k)(1) and (k)(2) of the Pri-
vacy Act. 
(c) The Data Analytics Program 
Records System (JUSTICE/OIG–006) 
system of records is exempt from 5 
U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (4); (d); (e)(1), (2), 
(3), (5) and (8); and (g) of the Privacy 
Act. These exemptions apply only to 
the extent that information in this sys-
tem is subject to exemption pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) and/or (k). Where 
compliance would not appear to inter-
fere with or adversely affect the law 
enforcement process, and/or where it 
may be appropriate to permit individ-
uals to contest the accuracy of the in-
formation collected, e.g., public source 
materials, the applicable exemption 
may be waived, either partially or to-
tally, by OIG. 
(d) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00338 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR329 
Department of Justice § 16.75 
(1) From subsection (c)(3), the re-
quirement that an accounting be made 
available to the named subject of a 
record, because release of disclosure 
accounting could alert the subject of 
an investigation of an actual or poten-
tial criminal, civil, or regulatory viola-
tion to the existence of an investiga-
tion and the fact that the individual is 
the subject of the investigation. Such a 
disclosure could also reveal investiga-
tive interests by not only OIG, but also 
by the recipient agency or component. 
Since release of such information to 
the subjects of an investigation would 
provide them with significant informa-
tion concerning the nature of the in-
vestigation, release could result in the 
destruction of documentary evidence, 
improper influencing of witnesses, 
endangerment of the physical safety of 
confidential sources, witnesses, and 
law enforcement personnel, the fab-
rication of testimony, flight of the sub-
ject from the area, and other activities 
that could impede or compromise the 
investigation. In addition, providing 
the individual an accounting for each 
disclosure could result in the release of 
properly classified information which 
would compromise the national defense 
or disrupt foreign policy. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) notifica-
tion requirements, for the same rea-
sons that justify exempting this sys-
tem from the access and amendment 
provisions of subsection (d), and simi-
larly, from the accounting of disclo-
sures provision of subsection (c)(3). The 
DOJ takes seriously its obligation to 
maintain accurate records despite its 
assertion of this exemption, and to the 
extent it, in its sole discretion, agrees 
to permit amendment or correction of 
DOJ records, it will share that infor-
mation in appropriate cases. 
(3) From subsection (d), the access 
and amendment provisions, because ac-
cess to the records contained in this 
system of records could inform the sub-
ject of an investigation of an actual or 
potential criminal, civil, or regulatory 
violation, of the existence of the inves-
tigation; of the nature and scope of the 
information and evidence obtained as 
to the subject’s activities; of the iden-
tity of confidential sources, witnesses, 
and law enforcement personnel, and of 
information that may enable the sub-
ject to avoid detection or apprehen-
sion. These factors would present a se-
rious impediment to effective law en-
forcement where they prevent the suc-
cessful completion of the investigation, 
endanger the physical safety of con-
fidential sources, witnesses, and law 
enforcement personnel, and/or lead to 
the improper influencing of witnesses, 
the destruction of evidence, or the fab-
rication of testimony. In addition, 
granting access to such information 
could disclose security-sensitive or 
confidential business information or 
information that would constitute an 
unwarranted invasion of the personal 
privacy of third parties. Finally, access 
to the records could result in the re-
lease of properly classified information 
that would compromise the national 
defense or disrupt foreign policy. 
Amendment of the records would inter-
fere with ongoing investigations and 
law enforcement activities and impose 
an impossible administrative burden by 
requiring investigations to be continu-
ously reinvestigated. 
(4) From subsection (e)(1), because 
the application of this provision could 
impair investigations and interfere 
with the law enforcement responsibil-
ities of the OIG for the following rea-
sons: 
(i) It is not possible to determine the 
relevance or necessity of specific infor-
mation in the early stages of a civil, 
criminal or other law enforcement in-
vestigation, case, or matter, including 
investigations in which use is made of 
properly classified information. Rel-
evance and necessity are questions of 
judgment and timing, and it is only 
after the information is evaluated that 
the relevance and necessity of such in-
formation can be established. 
(ii) During the course of any inves-
tigation, the OIG may obtain informa-
tion concerning actual or potential vio-
lations of laws other than those within 
the scope of its jurisdiction. In the in-
terest of effective law enforcement, the 
OIG should retain this information in 
accordance with applicable record re-
tention procedures, as it may aid in es-
tablishing patterns of criminal activ-
ity, and can provide valuable leads for 
Federal and other law enforcement 
agencies. 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00339 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR330 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.76 
(iii) In interviewing individuals or 
obtaining other forms of evidence dur-
ing an investigation, information may 
be supplied to an investigator which re-
lates to matters incidental to the pri-
mary purpose of the investigation but 
which may also relate to matters under 
the investigative jurisdiction of an-
other agency. Such information cannot 
readily be segregated. 
(5) From subsection (e)(2), because, in 
some instances, the application of this 
provision would present a serious im-
pediment to law enforcement for the 
following reasons: 
(i) The subject of an investigation 
would be placed on notice as to the ex-
istence of an investigation and would 
therefore be able to avoid detection or 
apprehension, to improperly influence 
witnesses, to destroy evidence, or to 
fabricate testimony. 
(ii) In certain circumstances the sub-
ject of an investigation cannot be re-
quired to provide information to inves-
tigators, and information relating to a 
subject’s illegal acts, violations of 
rules of conduct, or any other mis-
conduct must be obtained from other 
sources. 
(iii) In any investigation it is nec-
essary to obtain evidence from a vari-
ety of sources other than the subject of 
the investigation in order to verify the 
evidence necessary for successful liti-
gation. 
(6) From subsection (e)(3), because 
the application of this provision would 
provide the subject of an investigation 
with substantial information which 
could impede or compromise the inves-
tigation. Providing such notice to a 
subject of an investigation could inter-
fere with an undercover investigation 
by revealing its existence, and could 
endanger the physical safety of con-
fidential sources, witnesses, and inves-
tigators by revealing their identities. 
(7) From subsection (e)(5), because 
the application of this provision would 
prevent the collection of any data not 
shown to be accurate, relevant, timely, 
and complete at the moment it is col-
lected. In the collection of information 
for law enforcement purposes, it is im-
possible to determine in advance what 
information is accurate, relevant, 
timely, and complete. Material that 
may seem unrelated, irrelevant, or in-
complete when collected may take on 
added meaning or significance as an in-
vestigation progresses. The restrictions 
of this provision could interfere with 
the preparation of a complete inves-
tigative report, and thereby impede ef-
fective law enforcement. 
(8) From subsection (e)(8), because to 
require individual notice of disclosure 
of information due to compulsory legal 
process would pose an impossible ad-
ministrative burden on OIG and may 
alert the subjects of law enforcement 
investigations, who might be otherwise 
unaware, to the fact of those investiga-
tions. Such notice could also reveal in-
vestigative techniques, procedures, or 
evidence. 
(9) From subsection (g), to the extent 
that this system is exempt from the ac-
cess and amendment provisions of sub-
section (d), pursuant to subsections 
(j)(2), (k)(1), and (k)(2) of the Privacy 
Act. 
[Order No. 63–92, 57 FR 8263, Mar. 9, 1992, as 
amended by Order No. 64–92, 57 FR 8263, Mar. 
9, 1992; AG Order No. 006–2018, 83 FR 66126, 
Dec. 26, 2018] 
§ 16.76 Exemption of Justice Manage-
ment Division. 
(a) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(d): 
(1) Controlled Substances Act Non-
public Records (JUSTICE/JMD–002). 
This exemption applies only to the ex-
tent that information in this system is 
subject to exemption pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552a(j)(2). 
(b) Exemption from subsection (d) is 
justified for the following reasons: 
(1) Access to and use of the nonpublic 
records maintained in this system are 
restricted by law. Section 3607(b) of 
Title 18 U.S.C. (enacted as part of the 
Sentencing Reform Act of 1984, Pub. L. 
98–473, Chapter II) provides that the 
sole purpose of these records shall be 
for use by the courts in determining 
whether a person found guilty of vio-
lating section 404 of the Controlled 
Substances Act qualifies: 
(i) For the disposition available 
under 18 U.S.C. 3607(a) to persons with 
no prior conviction under a Federal or 
State law relating to controlled sub-
stances, or 
(ii) For an order, under 18 U.S.C. 
3607(c), expunging all official records 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00340 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR331 
Department of Justice § 16.76 
(except the nonpublic records to be re-
tained by the Department of Justice) of 
the arrest and any subsequent criminal 
proceedings relating to the offense. 
(2) Information in this system con-
sists of arrest records, including those 
of co-defendants. The records include 
reports of informants and investiga-
tions. Therefore, access could disclose 
investigative techniques, reveal the 
identity of confidential sources, and in-
vade the privacy of third parties. 
(c) The following system of records is 
exempted from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and 
(4); (d)(1), (2), (3), and (4); (e)(1), (2), (3), 
(5), and (8); and (g): Federal Bureau of 
Investigation Whistleblower Case Files 
(Justice/JMD–023). These exemptions 
apply only to the extent that informa-
tion in a record contained within this 
system is subject to exemptions pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) and (k). 
(d) Exemption from the particular 
subsections is justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) Subsection (c)(3). To provide the 
subject with an accounting of disclo-
sures of records in this system could 
inform that individual of the existence, 
nature, or scope of an actual or poten-
tial law enforcement or counterintel-
ligence investigation, and thereby seri-
ously impede law enforcement or coun-
terintelligence efforts by permitting 
the record subject and other persons to 
whom he might disclose the records to 
avoid criminal penalties, civil rem-
edies, or counterintelligence measures. 
(2) Subsection (c)(4). This subsection is 
inapplicable to the extent that an ex-
emption is being claimed for sub-
section (d). 
(3) Subsection (d)(1). Information 
within this record system could relate 
to official federal investigations and 
matters of law enforcement. Individual 
access to these records could com-
promise ongoing investigations, reveal 
confidential informants and/or sen-
sitive investigative techniques used in 
particular investigations, or constitute 
unwarranted invasions of the personal 
privacy of third parties who are in-
volved in a certain investigation. Dis-
closure may also reveal information re-
lating to actual or potential law en-
forcement investigations. Disclosure of 
classified national security informa-
tion would cause damage to the na-
tional security of the United States. 
(4) Subsection (d)(2). Amendment of 
these records could interfere with on-
going criminal or civil law enforce-
ment proceedings and impose an im-
possible administrative burden by re-
quiring investigations to be continu-
ously reinvestigated. 
(5) Subsections (d)(3) and (4). These 
subsections are inapplicable to the ex-
tent exemption is claimed from (d)(1) 
and (2). 
(6) Subsection (e)(1). It is often impos-
sible to determine in advance if inves-
tigatory information contained in this 
system is accurate, relevant, timely 
and complete, but, in the interests of 
effective law enforcement and counter-
intelligence, it is necessary to retain 
this information to aid in establishing 
patterns of activity and provide inves-
tigative leads. 
(7) Subsection (e)(2). To collect infor-
mation from the subject individual 
could serve to notify the subject indi-
vidual that he or she is the subject of 
a criminal investigation and thereby 
present a serious impediment to such 
investigations. 
(8) Subsection (e)(3). To inform indi-
viduals as required by this subsection 
could reveal the existence of a criminal 
investigation and compromise inves-
tigative efforts. 
(9) Subsection (e)(5). It is often impos-
sible to determine in advance if inves-
tigatory information contained in this 
system is accurate, relevant, timely 
and complete, but, in the interests of 
effective law enforcement and counter-
intelligence, it is necessary to retain 
this information to aid in establishing 
patterns of activity and provide inves-
tigative leads. 
(10) Subsection (e)(8). To serve notice 
could give persons sufficient warning 
to evade investigative efforts. 
(11) Subsection (g). This subsection is 
inapplicable to the extent that the sys-
tem is exempt from other specific sub-
sections of the Privacy Act. 
(e) The following system of records is 
exempted from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3); 
(d)(1)–(4); (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I); 
and (f): Department of Justice Security 
Monitoring and Analytics Service 
Records (JUSTICE/JMD–026). The ex-
emptions in this paragraph (e) apply 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00341 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR332 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.77 
only to the extent that information in 
this system of records is subject to ex-
emption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). 
Where DOJ determines compliance 
would not appear to interfere with or 
adversely affect the purpose of this sys-
tem of records to ensure that the De-
partment can track information sys-
tem access and implement information 
security protections commensurate 
with the risk and magnitude of harm 
that could result from the unauthor-
ized access, use, disclosure, disruption, 
modification, or destruction of DOJ in-
formation and information systems, 
the applicable exemption may be 
waived by the DOJ in its sole discre-
tion. 
(f) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections listed in paragraph (e) of 
this section are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3), the re-
quirement that an accounting be made 
available to the named subject of a 
record, because this system of records 
is exempt from the access provisions of 
subsection (d). Also, because making 
available to a record subject the ac-
counting of disclosures of records con-
cerning the subject would specifically 
reveal investigative interests in the 
records by the DOJ, external Federal 
agency subscribers, or other entities 
that are recipients of the disclosures. 
Revealing this information could com-
promise sensitive information or inter-
fere with the overall law enforcement 
process by revealing a pending sen-
sitive cybersecurity investigation. Re-
vealing this information could also 
permit the record subject to obtain val-
uable insight concerning the informa-
tion obtained during any investigation 
and to take measures to impede the in-
vestigation, e.g., destroy evidence or 
alter techniques to evade discovery. 
(2) From subsection (d)(1), (2), (3) and 
(4), (e)(4)(G) and (H), and (f) because 
these provisions concern individual ac-
cess to and amendment of certain law 
enforcement and sensitive records, 
compliance of which could alert the 
subject of an authorized law enforce-
ment activity about that particular ac-
tivity and the interest of the DOJ, ex-
ternal Federal agency subscribers, and/ 
or other entities that are recipients of 
the disclosure. Providing access could 
compromise sensitive information or 
reveal sensitive cybersecurity inves-
tigative techniques; provide informa-
tion that would allow a subject to 
avoid detection; or constitute a poten-
tial danger to the health or safety of 
law enforcement personnel or confiden-
tial sources. 
(3) From subsection (e)(1) because it 
is not always possible to know in ad-
vance what information is relevant and 
necessary for law enforcement pur-
poses. The relevance and utility of cer-
tain information that may have a 
nexus to cybersecurity threats may not 
always be fully evident until and un-
less it is vetted and matched with 
other information lawfully maintained 
by the DOJ, external Federal agency 
subscribers, or other entities. 
(4) From subsection (e)(4)(I), to the 
extent that this subsection is inter-
preted to require more detail regarding 
the record sources in this system of 
records than has been published in the 
F
EDERAL REGISTER. Should the sub-
section be so interpreted, exemption 
from this provision is necessary to pro-
tect the sources of law enforcement in-
formation. 
[Order No. 645–76, 41 FR 12640, Mar. 26, 1976, 
as amended by Order No. 688–77, 42 FR 9999, 
Feb. 18, 1977; Order No. 899–80, 45 FR 43703, 
June 30, 1980; Order No. 6–86, 51 FR 15476, Apr. 
24, 1986; Order No. 246–2001, 66 FR 54663, Oct. 
30, 2001; Order No. 297–2002, 67 FR 70163, Nov. 
21, 2002; Order No. 019–2005, 71 FR 17, Jan. 3, 
2006; CPCLO Order No. 011–2021, 86 FR 61691, 
Nov. 8, 2021] 
§ 16.77 Exemption of U.S. Trustee Pro-
gram System—limited access. 
(a) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a (c) (3) and 
(4); (d); (e) (1), (2) and (3), (e)(4) (G) and 
(H), (e) (5) and (8); (f) and (g): 
(1) U.S. Trustee Program Case Refer-
ral System, JUSTICE/UST–004. 
These exemptions apply to the extent 
that information in this system is sub-
ject to exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
552a(j)(2) and (k)(2). 
(b) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because the 
release of the disclosure accounting 
would permit the subject of an inves-
tigation to obtain valuable information 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00342 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR333 
Department of Justice § 16.79 
concerning the nature of that inves-
tigation. This would permit record sub-
jects to impede the investigation, e.g., 
destroy evidence, intimidate potential 
witnesses, or flee the area to avoid in-
quiries or apprehension by law enforce-
ment personnel. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) since an ex-
emption being claimed for subsection 
(d) makes this subsection inapplicable. 
(3) From subsection (d) because ac-
cess to the records contained in this 
system might compromise ongoing in-
vestigations, reveal confidential in-
formants, or constitute unwarranted 
invasions of the personal privacy of 
third parties who are involved in a cer-
tain investigation. Amendment of the 
records would interfere with ongoing 
criminal law enforcement proceedings 
and impose an impossible administra-
tive burden by requiring criminal in-
vestigations to be continuously re-
investigated. 
(4) From subsections (e)(1) and (e)(5) 
because in the course of law enforce-
ment investigations, information may 
occasionally be obtained or introduced 
the accuracy of which is unclear or 
which is not strictly relevant or nec-
essary to a specific investigation. In 
the interest of effective law enforce-
ment, it is appropriate to retain all in-
formation that may aid in establishing 
patterns of criminal activity. More-
over, it would impede the specific in-
vestigative process if it were necessary 
to assure the relevance, accuracy, 
timeliness, and completeness of all in-
formation obtained. 
(5) From subsection (e)(2) because in 
a criminal investigation the require-
ment that information be collected to 
the greatest extent possible from the 
subject individual would present a seri-
ous impediment to law enforcement be-
cause the subject of the investigation 
would be placed on notice as to the ex-
istence of the investigation and would 
therefore be able to avoid detection or 
apprehension, to influence witnesses 
improperly, to destroy evidence, or to 
fabricate testimony. 
(6) From subsection (e)(3) because the 
requirement that individuals supplying 
information be provided with a form 
stating the requirements of subsection 
(e)(3) would constitute a serious im-
pediment to law enforcement in that it 
would compromise the existence of a 
confidential investigation or reveal the 
identity of witnesses or confidential in-
formants. 
(7) From subsections (e)(4) (G) and 
(H) because this system of records is 
exempt from the access provisions of 
subsection (d) pursuant to subsections 
(j) and (k). 
(8) From subsection (e)(8) because the 
individual notice requirement of this 
subsection could present a serious im-
pediment to law enforcement in that 
this could interfere with the U.S. At-
torney’s ability to issue subpoenas. 
(9) From subsections (f) and (g) be-
cause this system has been exempted 
from the access provisions of sub-
section (d). 
[Order No. 1–87, 52 FR 3631, Feb. 5, 1987] 
§ 16.78 Exemption of the Special Coun-
sel for Immigration-Related, Unfair 
Employment Practices Systems. 
(a) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (d). 
(1) Central Index File and Associated 
Records, JUSTICE/OSC–001. 
These exemptions apply to the extent 
that information in this system is sub-
ject to exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
552a(k)(2). 
(b) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because the 
release of the disclosure accounting 
would permit the subject of an inves-
tigation to obtain valuable information 
concerning the nature of that inves-
tigation. This would permit record sub-
jects to impede the investigation, e.g., 
destroy evidence, intimidate potential 
witnesses, or flee the area to avoid in-
quiries. 
(2) From subsection (d) because ac-
cess to the records might compromise 
ongoing investigations, reveal con-
fidential informants, or constitute un-
warranted invasions of the personal 
privacy of third parties who are in-
volved in a certain investigation. 
[Order No. 10–88, 53 FR 7735, Mar. 10, 1988] 
§ 16.79 Exemption of Pardon Attorney 
System. 
(a) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a, subsections 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00343 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR334 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.80 
(c)(3), (c)(4), (d)(1), (d)(2), (d)(3), (d)(4), 
and (e)(5): Executive Clemency Case 
Files/Executive Clemency Tracking 
System (JUSTICE/OPA–001). These ex-
emptions apply only to the extent that 
information in this system of records is 
subject to exemption pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552a(j)(2). 
(b) Exemption from the particular 
subsections is justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because: 
(i) The purpose of the creation and 
maintenance of the Executive Clem-
ency Case Files/Executive Clemency 
Tracking System (JUSTICE/OPA–001) 
is to enable the Justice Department to 
prepare reports and recommendations 
to the President for his ultimate deci-
sions on clemency matters, which are 
committed to exclusive discretion of 
the President pursuant to Article II, 
Section 2, Clause 1 of the Constitution. 
(ii) Release of the disclosure account-
ing, for disclosures pursuant to the 
routine uses published for this system, 
would permit the requester to obtain 
valuable information concerning the 
nature and scope of a clemency inves-
tigation, invade the right of candid and 
confidential communications among 
officials concerned with making rec-
ommendations to the President in 
clemency matters, and disclose the 
identity of persons who furnished infor-
mation to the Government under an 
express or implied promise that their 
identities would be held in confidence. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) because the 
exemption from subsections (d)(1), 
(d)(2), (d)(3), and (d)(4) will make notifi-
cation of disputes inapplicable. 
(3) From subsections (d)(1), (d)(2), 
(d)(3), and (d)(4) is justified for the rea-
sons stated in paragraph (b)(1) of this 
section. 
(4) From subsection (e)(5) is justified 
for the reasons stated in paragraph 
(b)(1) of this section. 
[Order No. 005–2003, 68 FR 4929, Jan. 31, 2003] 
§ 16.80 Exemption of Office of Profes-
sional Responsibility System—lim-
ited access. 
(a) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (4), 
(d), (e)(1), (2) and (3), (e)(4)(G) and (H), 
(e)(5) and (8), (f) and (g): 
(1) Office of Professional Responsi-
bility Record Index (JUSTICE/OPR– 
001). 
These exemptions apply only to the ex-
tent that information in the system is 
subject to exemption pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), (k)(1), (k)(2), and 
(k)(5). 
(b) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because re-
lease of the disclosure accounting 
would enable the subject of an inves-
tigation to gain information con-
cerning the existence, nature and scope 
of the investigation and seriously ham-
per law enforcement efforts. 
(2) From subsections (c)(4), (d), 
(e)(4)(G) and (H), (f) and (g) because 
these provisions concern individual ac-
cess to records and such access might 
compromise ongoing investigations, re-
veal confidential informants and con-
stitute unwarranted invasions of the 
personal privacy of third persons who 
provide information in connection with 
a particular investigation. 
(3) From subsections (e)(1) and (5) be-
cause the collection of information 
during an investigation necessarily in-
volves material pertaining to other 
persons or events which is appropriate 
in a thorough investigation, even 
though portions thereof are not ulti-
mately connected to the person or 
event subject to the final action or rec-
ommendation of the Office of Profes-
sional Responsibility. 
(4) From subsection (e)(2) because 
collecting the information from the 
subject would thwart the investigation 
by placing the subject on notice of the 
investigation. 
(5) From subsections (e)(3) and (e)(8) 
because disclosure and notice would 
provide the subject with substantial in-
formation which could impede or com-
promise the investigation. For exam-
ple, an investigatory subject occupying 
a supervisory position could, once 
made aware that a misconduct inves-
tigation was ongoing, put undue pres-
sure on subordinates so as to preclude 
their cooperation with investigators. 
(c) The following system of records is 
exempted from 5 U.S.C. 552a(d). 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00344 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR335 
Department of Justice § 16.81 
(1) Freedom of Information/Privacy 
Act (FOI/PA) Records (JUSTICE/OPR– 
002). 
This exemption applies only to the 
extent that information in this system 
is subject to exemption pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), (k)(1), and (k)(2). To 
the extent that information in a record 
pertaining to an individual does not re-
late to national defense or foreign pol-
icy, official Federal investigations and/ 
or law enforcement matters, the ex-
emption does not apply. In addition, 
where compliance would not appear to 
interfere with or adversely affect the 
overall law enforcement process, the 
applicable exemption may be waived by 
OPR. 
(d) Exemption from subsection (d) is 
justified for the following reasons: 
(1) From the access and amendment 
provisions of subsection (d) because ac-
cess to the records contained in this 
system of records could inform the sub-
ject of an investigation of an actual or 
potential criminal, civil, or regulatory 
violation of the existence of that inves-
tigation; of the nature and scope of the 
information and evidence obtained as 
to his activities; of the identity of con-
fidential sources, witnesses, and law 
enforcement personnel; and of informa-
tion that may enable the subject to 
avoid detection or apprehension. These 
factors would present a serious impedi-
ment to effective law enforcement 
where they prevent the successful com-
pletion of the investigation, endanger 
the physical safety of confidential 
sources, witnesses, and law enforce-
ment personnel, and/or lead to the im-
proper influencing of witnesses, the de-
struction of evidence, or the fabrica-
tion of testimony. In addition, grant-
ing access to such information could 
disclose security-sensitive or confiden-
tial business information or informa-
tion that would constitute an unwar-
ranted invasion of the personal privacy 
of third parties. Finally, access to the 
records could result in the release of 
properly classified information which 
would compromise the national defense 
or disrupt foreign policy. Amendment 
of the records would interfere with on-
going investigations and law enforce-
ment activities and impose an enor-
mous administrative burden by requir-
ing investigations to be continuously 
reinvestigated. 
[Order No. 58–81, 46 FR 3509, Jan. 15, 1981, as 
amended by Order No. 159–99, 64 FR 17977, 
Apr. 13, 1999] 
§ 16.81 Exemption of United States At-
torneys Systems—limited access. 
(a) The following systems of records 
are exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c) (3) and 
(4), (d), (e) (1), (2) and (3), (e)(4) (G) and 
(H), (e) (5) and (8), (f), and (g): 
(1) Citizen Complaint Files (JUS-
TICE/USA–003). 
(2) Civil Case Files (JUSTICE/USA– 
005). 
(3) Consumer Complaints (JUSTICE/ 
USA–006). 
(4) Criminal Case Files (JUSTICE/ 
USA–007). 
(5) Kline-District of Columbia and 
Maryland-Stock and Land Fraud Inter-
relationship Filing System (JUSTICE/ 
USA–009). 
(6) Major Crimes Division Investiga-
tive Files (JUSTICE/USA–010). 
(7) Prosecutor’s Management Infor-
mation System (PROMIS) (JUSTICE/ 
USA–011). 
(8) United States Attorney, District 
of Columbia Superior Court Division, 
Criminal Files (JUSTICE/USA–013). 
(9) Pre-trial Diversion Program Files 
(JUSTICE/USA–014). 
These exemptions apply to the extent 
that information in these systems is 
subject to exemption pursuant to 
U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), (k)(1) and (k)(2). 
(b) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because the 
release of the disclosure accounting, 
for disclosures pursuant to the routine 
uses published for these systems, would 
permit the subject of a criminal inves-
tigation and/or civil case or matter 
under investigation, litigation, regu-
latory or administrative review or ac-
tion, to obtain valuable information 
concerning the nature of that inves-
tigation, case or matter and present a 
serious impediment to law enforcement 
or civil legal activities. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) since an ex-
emption is being claimed for sub-
section (d), this subsection will not be 
applicable. 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00345 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR336 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.81 
(3) From subsection (d) because ac-
cess to the records contained in these 
systems would inform the subject of 
criminal investigation and/or civil in-
vestigation, matter or case of the ex-
istence of that investigation, provide 
the subject of the investigation with 
information that might enable him to 
avoid detection, apprehension or legal 
obligations, and present a serious im-
pediment to law enforcement and other 
civil remedies. 
(4) From subsection (e)(1) because in 
the course of criminal investigations 
and/or civil investigations, cases or 
matters, the U.S. Attorneys often ob-
tain information concerning the viola-
tion of laws or civil obligations other 
than those relating to an active case or 
matter. In the interests of effective law 
enforcement and civil litigation, it is 
necessary that the U.S. Attorneys re-
tain this information since it can aid 
in establishing patterns of activity and 
provide valuable leads for other agen-
cies and future cases that may be 
brought within the U.S. Attorneys’ of-
fices. 
(5) From subsection (e)(2) because in 
a criminal investigation the require-
ment that information be collected to 
the greatest extent possible from the 
subject individual would present a seri-
ous impediment to law enforcement in 
that the subject of the investigation 
would be placed on notice of the exist-
ence of the investigation and would 
therefore be able to avoid detection, 
apprehension or legal obligations and 
duties. 
(6) From subsection (e)(3) because the 
requirement that individuals supplying 
information be provided with a form 
stating the requirements of subsection 
(e)(3) would constitute a serious im-
pediment to law enforcement in that it 
could compromise the existence of a 
confidential investigation, reveal the 
identity of confidential sources of in-
formation and endanger the life and 
physical safety of confidential inform-
ants. 
(7) From subsections (e)(4) (G) and 
(H) because these systems of records 
are exempt from individual access pur-
suant to subsections (j) and (k) of the 
Privacy Act of 1974. 
(8) From subsection (e)(5) because in 
the collection of information for law 
enforcement purposes it is impossible 
to determine in advance what informa-
tion is accurate, relevant, timely, and 
complete. With the passage of time, 
seemingly irrelevant or untimely infor-
mation may acquire new significance 
as further investigation brings new de-
tails to light and the accuracy of such 
information can only be determined in 
a court of law. The restrictions of sub-
section (e)(5) would restrict the ability 
of trained investigators and intel-
ligence analysts to exercise their judg-
ment in reporting on investigations 
and impede the development of intel-
ligence necessary for effective law en-
forcement. 
(9) From subsection (e)(8) because the 
individual notice requirements of sub-
section (e)(8) could present a serious 
impediment to law enforcement as this 
could interfere with the United States 
Attorneys’ ability to issue subpoenas 
and could reveal investigative tech-
niques and procedures. 
(10) From subsection (f) because these 
systems of records have been exempted 
from the access provisions of sub-
section (d). 
(11) From subsection (g) because 
these systems of records are compiled 
for law enforcement purposes and have 
been exempted from the access provi-
sions of subsections (d) and (f). 
(c) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c) (3) and (4), 
(d), (e) (1), (2) and (3), (e)(4) (G) and (H), 
(e) (5) and (8), (f), and (g): 
(1) Freedom of Information Act/Pri-
vacy Act Files (JUSTICE/USA–008) 
These exemptions apply to the extent 
that information in this system is sub-
ject to exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
552a(j)(2), (k)(1) and (k)(2). 
(d) Because this system contains De-
partment of Justice civil and criminal 
law enforcement, investigatory 
records, exemptions from the par-
ticular subsections are justified for the 
following reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because the 
release of the disclosure accounting 
would permit the subject of a criminal 
investigation and/or civil case or mat-
ter under investigation, in litigation, 
or under regulatory or administrative 
review or action to obtain valuable in-
formation concerning the nature of 
that investigation, case or matter, and 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00346 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR337 
Department of Justice § 16.81 
present a serious impediment to law 
enforcement or civil legal activities. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) because an 
exemption is being claimed for sub-
section (d) of the Act (Access to 
Records), rendering this subsection in-
applicable to the extent that this sys-
tem of records is exempted from sub-
section (d). 
(3) From subsection (d) because ac-
cess to the records contained in these 
systems would inform the subject of a 
criminal or civil investigation, matter 
or case of the existence of such, and 
provide the subject with information 
that might enable him to avoid detec-
tion, apprehension or legal obligations, 
and present a serious impediment to 
law enforcement and other civil rem-
edies. Amendment of the records would 
interfere with ongoing criminal law en-
forcement proceedings and impose an 
impossible administrative burden by 
requiring criminal investigations to be 
continuously reinvestigated. 
(4) From subsection (e)(1) because in 
the course of criminal investigations 
and/or civil investigations, cases or 
matters, the U.S. Attorneys often ob-
tain information concerning the viola-
tion of laws or civil obligations other 
than those relating to an active case or 
matter. In the interests of effective law 
enforcement and civil litigation, it is 
necessary that the U.S. Attorneys re-
tain this information since it can aid 
in establishing patterns of activity and 
provide valuable leads for other agen-
cies and future cases that may be 
brought within the U.S. Attorneys’ of-
fices. 
(5) From subsection (e)(2) because to 
collect information to the greatest ex-
tent possible from the subject indi-
vidual of a criminal investigation or 
prosecution would present a serious 
impediment to law enforcement in that 
the subject of the investigation would 
be placed on notice of the existence of 
the investigation and would therefore 
be able to avoid detection, apprehen-
sion, or legal obligations and duties. 
(6) From subsection (e)(3) because to 
provide individuals supplying informa-
tion with a form stating the require-
ments of subsection (e)(3) would con-
stitute a serious impediment to law en-
forcement in that it could compromise 
the existence of a confidential inves-
tigation, reveal the identity of con-
fidential sources of information, and 
endanger the life and physical safety of 
confidential informants. 
(7) From subsections (e)(4) (G) and 
(H) because this system of records is 
exempt from the individual access pro-
visions of subsection (d) and the rules 
provisions of subsection (f). 
(8) From subsection (e)(5) because in 
the collection of information for law 
enforcement purposes it is impossible 
to determine in advance what informa-
tion is accurate, relevant, timely, and 
complete. With the passage of time, 
seemingly irrelevant or untimely infor-
mation may acquire new significance 
as further investigation brings new de-
tails to light and the accuracy of such 
information can only be determined in 
a court of law. The restrictions of sub-
section (e)(5) would inhibit the ability 
of trained investigator and intelligence 
analysts to exercise their judgment in 
reporting on investigations and impede 
the development of intelligence nec-
essary for effective law enforcement. 
(9) From subsection (e)(8) because the 
individual notice requirements of sub-
section (e)(8) could present a serious 
impediment to law enforcement as this 
could interfere with the U.S. Attor-
neys’ ability to issue subpoenas and 
could reveal investigative techniques 
and procedures. 
(10) From subsection (f) because this 
system has been exempted from the in-
dividual access provisions of subsection 
(d). 
(11) From subsection (g) because the 
records in this system are generally 
compiled for law enforcement purposes 
and are exempt from the access provi-
sions of subsections (d) and (f), ren-
dering subsection (g) inapplicable. 
(e) The following systems of records 
are exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(1) and 
(e)(1): 
(1) Assistant U.S. Attorneys Appli-
cant Records System (JUSTICE/USA– 
016). 
(2) Appointed Assistant U.S. Attor-
neys Personnel System (JUSTICE/ 
USA–017). 
These exemptions apply only to the ex-
tent that information in these systems 
is subject to exemption pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552a(k)(5). 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00347 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR338 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.82 
(f) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (d)(1) because 
many persons are contacted who, with-
out an assurance of anonymity, refuse 
to provide information concerning a 
candidate for an Assistant U.S. Attor-
ney position. Access could reveal the 
identity of the source of the informa-
tion and constitute a breach of the 
promise of confidentiality on the part 
of the Department of Justice. Such 
breaches ultimately would restrict the 
free flow of information vital to a de-
termination of a candidate’s qualifica-
tions and suitability. 
(2) From subsection (e)(1) because in 
the collection of information for inves-
tigative and evaluative purposes, it is 
impossible to determine in advance 
what exact information may be of as-
sistance in determining the qualifica-
tions and suitability of a candidate. In-
formation which may appear irrele-
vant, when combined with other seem-
ingly irrelevant information, can on 
occasion provide a composite picture of 
a candidate for a position which assists 
in determining whether that candidate 
should be nominated for appointment. 
(g)–(h) [Reserved] 
(i) Consistent with the legislative 
purpose of the Privacy Act of 1974, the 
Executive Office for United States At-
torneys will grant access to nonexempt 
material in records which are main-
tained by the U.S. Attorneys. Disclo-
sure will be governed by the Depart-
ment’s Privacy regulations, but will be 
limited to the extent that the identity 
of confidential sources will not be com-
promised; subjects of an investigation 
of an actual or potential criminal, civil 
or regulatory violation will not be 
alerted to the investigation; the phys-
ical safety of witnesses, informants and 
law enforcement personnel will not be 
endangered, the privacy of third par-
ties will not be violated; and that the 
disclosure would not otherwise impede 
effective law enforcement. Whenever 
possible, information of the above na-
ture will be deleted from the requested 
documents and the balance made avail-
able. The controlling principle behind 
this limited access is to allow disclo-
sures except those indicated above. The 
decisions to release information from 
these systems will be made on a case- 
by-case basis. 
[Order No. 645–76, 41 FR 12640, Mar. 26, 1976, 
as amended by Order No. 716–77, 42 FR 23506, 
May 9, 1977; Order No. 738–77, 42 FR 38177, 
July 27, 1977; Order No. 6–86, 51 FR 15476, Apr. 
24, 1986; Order No. 57–91, 56 FR 58306, Nov. 19, 
1991; Order No. 224–2001, 66 FR 17809, Apr. 4, 
2001; Order No. 008–2015, 80 FR 34051, June 15, 
2015] 
§ 16.82 Exemption of the National 
Drug Intelligence Center Data 
Base—limited access. 
(a) The following system of records is 
exempted pursuant to the provisions of 
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) from subsections (c) 
(3) and (4); (d); (e) (1), (2), and (3); 
(e)(4)(I); (e) (5) and (8); and (g) of 5 
U.S.C. 552a. In addition, the following 
system of records is exempted pursuant 
to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a (k)(1) 
and (k)(2) from subsections (c)(3), (d), 
and (e)(1) and (e)(4)(I) of 5 U.S.C. 552a: 
(1) National Drug Intelligence Center 
Data Base (JUSTICE/NDIC–001). 
(2) [Reserved] 
(b) These exemptions apply only to 
the extent that information in this sys-
tem is subject to exemption pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), (k)(1), and (k)(2). 
Where compliance would not appear to 
interfere with or adversely affect the 
law enforcement process, and/or where 
it may be appropriate to permit indi-
viduals to contest the accuracy of the 
information collected, e.g., public 
source materials, the applicable ex-
emption may be waived, either par-
tially or totally, by the National Drug 
Intelligence Center (NDIC). Exemp-
tions from the particular subsections 
are justified for the following reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) for the 
same reasons that the system is ex-
empted from the provisions of sub-
section (d). 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) because 
this system is exempt from the access 
provisions of subsection (d) pursuant to 
subsection (j)(2) of the Privacy Act. 
(3) From subsection (d) because dis-
closure to the subject could alert the 
subject of an investigation pertaining 
to narcotic trafficking or related activ-
ity of the fact and nature of the inves-
tigation, and/or of the investigative in-
terest of NDIC and other intelligence 
or law enforcement agencies (including 
those responsible for civil proceedings 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00348 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR339 
Department of Justice § 16.82 
related to laws against drug traf-
ficking); lead to the destruction of evi-
dence, improper influencing of wit-
nesses, fabrication of testimony, and/or 
flight of the subject; reveal the details 
of a sensitive investigative or intel-
ligence technique, or the identity of a 
confidential source; or otherwise im-
pede, compromise, or interfere with in-
vestigative efforts and other related 
law enforcement and/or intelligence ac-
tivities. In addition, disclosure could 
invade the privacy of third parties and/ 
or endanger the life and safety of law 
enforcement personnel, confidential in-
formants, witnesses, and potential 
crime victims. Finally, access to 
records could result in the release of 
properly classified information that 
could compromise the national defense 
or foreign policy. Amendment of the 
records would interfere with ongoing 
investigations and law enforcement ac-
tivities and impose an impossible ad-
ministrative burden by requiring inves-
tigations, analyses, and reports to be 
continuously reinvestigated and re-
vised. 
(4) From subsection (e)(1) because, in 
the course of its acquisition, collation, 
and analysis of information, NDIC will 
need to retain information not imme-
diately shown to be relevant to 
counterdrug law enforcement to estab-
lish patterns of activity and to assist 
other agencies charged with the en-
forcement of laws and regulations re-
garding drug trafficking and charged 
with the acquisition of intelligence re-
lated to international aspects of drug 
trafficking. This consideration applies 
equally to information acquired from, 
or collated or analyzed for, both law 
enforcement agencies and agencies of 
the U.S. foreign intelligence commu-
nity. 
(5) From subsection (e)(2) because ap-
plication of this provision could 
present a serious impediment to law 
enforcement in that it would put the 
subject of an investigation, study or 
analysis on notice of the fact of such 
investigation, study, or analysis, there-
by permitting the subject to engage in 
conduct intended to frustrate the ac-
tivity; because, in some circumstances, 
the subject of an investigation may not 
be required to provide to investigators 
certain information; and because thor-
ough analysis and investigation may 
require seeking information from a 
number of different sources. 
(6) From subsection (e)(3) (to the ex-
tent applicable) because the require-
ment that individuals supplying infor-
mation be provided a form stating the 
requirements of subsection (e)(3) would 
constitute a serious impediment to law 
enforcement in that it could com-
promise the existence of a confidential 
investigation and reveal the identity of 
confidential informants and endanger 
their lives and safety. 
(7) From subsection (e)(4)(I), to the 
extent that this subsection is inter-
preted to require more detail regarding 
the record sources in this system than 
have been published in the F
EDERAL 
REGISTER. Should the subsection be so 
interpreted, exemption from this provi-
sion is necessary to protect the con-
fidentiality of the sources of criminal 
and other law enforcement information 
and to protect the privacy and physical 
safety of witnesses and informants. 
Furthermore, greater specificity con-
cerning the sources of properly classi-
fied records could compromise national 
defense or foreign policy. 
(8) From subsection (e)(5) because the 
acquisition, collation, and analysis of 
information for law enforcement pur-
poses does not permit advance deter-
mination whether such information is 
accurate or relevant, nor can such in-
formation be limited to that which is 
complete or apparently timely. Infor-
mation of this type often requires fur-
ther analysis and investigation to de-
velop into a comprehensive whole that 
which is otherwise incomplete or even 
fragmentary. Moreover, its accuracy is 
continually subject to analysis and re-
view, and, upon careful examination, 
seemingly irrelevant or untimely infor-
mation may acquire added significance 
as additional information brings new 
details to light. The restrictions im-
posed by subsection (e)(5) would re-
strict the ability of trained investiga-
tors and intelligence analysts to exer-
cise their judgment in collating and 
analyzing information and would im-
pede the development of criminal intel-
ligence necessary for effective law en-
forcement. 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00349 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR340 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.83 
(9) From subsection (e)(8) because the 
individual notice requirements of sub-
section (e)(8) could present a serious 
impediment to law enforcement by re-
vealing investigative techniques, pro-
cedures, or evidence. 
(10) From subsection (g) to the extent 
that the system is exempt from sub-
section (d). 
[Order No. 78–93, 58 FR 41038, Aug. 2, 1993] 
§ 16.83 Exemption of the Executive Of-
fice for Immigration Review Sys-
tem—limited access. 
(a) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(d): 
(1) The Executive Office for Immigra-
tion Review’s Records and Manage-
ment Information System (JUSTICE/ 
EOIR–001). 
This exemption applies only to the ex-
tent that information in the system is 
subject to exemption pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552a(k) (1) and (2). 
(b) Exemption from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (d) because ac-
cess to information which has been 
properly classified pursuant to an Ex-
ecutive Order could have an adverse ef-
fect on the national security. In addi-
tion, from subsection (d) because unau-
thorized access to certain investiga-
tory material could compromise ongo-
ing or potential investigations; reveal 
the identity of confidential informants; 
or constitute unwarranted invasions of 
the personal privacy of third parties. 
(2) From subsection (d) (2), (3), and (4) 
because the record of proceeding con-
stitutes an official record which in-
cludes transcripts of quasi-judicial ad-
ministrative proceedings, investiga-
tory materials, evidentiary materials 
such as exhibits, decisional memo-
randa, and other case-related papers. 
Administrative due process could not 
be achieved by the ex parte ‘‘correc-
tion’’ of such materials by the indi-
vidual who is the subject thereof. 
(c) The following system of records is 
exempted form 5 U.S.C. 552a(d). 
(1) Practitioner Compliant/Discipli-
nary Files (JUSTICE/EOIR 003). This 
exemption applies only to the extent 
that information in this system is sub-
ject to exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
552a(j)(2), (k)(1), and (k)(2). To the ex-
tent that information in a record per-
taining to an individual does not relate 
to national defense or foreign policy, 
official Federal investigations and/or 
law enforcement matters, the exemp-
tion does not apply. In addition, where 
compliance would not appear to inter-
fere with or adversely affect the over-
all law or regulatory enforcement proc-
ess, the applicable exemption may be 
waived by the Executive Office for Im-
migration Review. 
(d) Exemption from subsection (d) is 
justified for the following reasons: 
(1) From the access and amendment 
provisions of subsection (d) because ac-
cess to the records contained in this 
system of records could inform the sub-
ject of the investigation of an actual or 
potential criminal, civil, or regulatory 
violation or the existence of that inves-
tigation; of the nature and scope of the 
information and evidence obtained as 
to the subject’s activities; of the iden-
tity of confidential sources, witnesses, 
and law enforcement personnel; and of 
information that may enable the sub-
ject to avoid detection or apprehen-
sion. These factors would present a se-
rious impediment to effective law and 
regulatory enforcement where they 
prevent the successful completion of 
the investigation, endanger the phys-
ical safety of confidential sources, wit-
nesses, and law enforcement personnel, 
and/or lead to the improper influencing 
of witnesses, the destruction of evi-
dence, or the fabrication of testimony. 
In addition, granting access to such in-
formation could disclose security-sen-
sitive or confidential business informa-
tion or information that would con-
stitute an unwarranted invasion of the 
personal privacy of third parties. Fi-
nally, access to the records could re-
sult in the release of properly classified 
information which would compromise 
the national defense or disrupt foreign 
policy. Amendment of the records 
would interfere with ongoing investiga-
tions and law enforcement activities 
and impose an enormous administra-
tive burden by requiring investigations 
to be continuously reinvestigated. 
(e) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(d): Office of 
the Chief Administrative Hearing Offi-
cer (OCAHO) Case Management System 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00350 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR341 
Department of Justice § 16.85 
(CMS) (JUSTICE/EOIR–002). This ex-
emption applies only to the extent that 
information in the system is subject to 
exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
552a(k)(1) and (2). 
(f) Exemption from 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) is 
justified for the system of records in 
paragraph (e) of this section for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) In limited circumstances, from 
subsection (d) when access to the 
records contained in the system of 
records in paragraph (e) of this section 
could inform the subject of an ongoing 
investigation of an actual or potential 
criminal, civil, or regulatory violation 
or the existence of that investigation; 
of the nature and scope of the informa-
tion and evidence obtained as to the 
subject’s activities; of the identity of 
confidential sources, witnesses, and 
law enforcement personnel; and of in-
formation that may enable the subject 
to avoid detection or apprehension. 
These factors would present a serious 
impediment to effective law and regu-
latory enforcement where they prevent 
the successful completion of the inves-
tigation, endanger the physical safety 
of confidential sources, witnesses, and 
law enforcement personnel; and/or lead 
to the improper influencing of wit-
nesses, the destruction of evidence, or 
the fabrication of testimony. In addi-
tion, granting access to such informa-
tion could disclose security-sensitive 
or confidential business information or 
information that would constitute an 
unwarranted invasion of the personal 
privacy of third parties. 
(2) From subsections (d)(2), (3), and 
(4) because the administrative case 
files constitute an official record which 
includes transcripts of administrative 
proceedings, investigatory materials, 
evidentiary materials such as exhibits, 
decisional memoranda, and other case- 
related papers. Administrative due 
process could not be achieved by the ex 
parte ‘‘correction’’ of such materials 
by the individual who is the subject 
thereof. 
[Order No. 18–86, 51 FR 32305, Sept. 11, 1986, as 
amended by Order No. 180–99, 64 FR 61787, 
Nov. 15, 1999; Order No. 11–2019; 84 FR 64200, 
Nov. 21, 2019] 
§ 16.84 Exemption of Immigration Ap-
peals System. 
(a) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) (2), (3) and 
(4): 
(1) Decisions of the Board of Immi-
gration Appeals (JUSTICE/BIA–001). 
This exemption applies only to the ex-
tent that information in this system is 
subject to exemption pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552a(k). 
(b) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsections (d) (2), (3) and 
(4) because the decisions reflected con-
stitute official records of opinions ren-
dered in quasi-judicial proceedings. Ad-
ministrative due process could not be 
achieved by the ex parte ‘‘correction’’ 
of such opinions by the subject of the 
opinion. 
§ 16.85 Exemption of U.S. Parole Com-
mission—limited access. 
(a) The following systems of records 
are exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a (c) (3) 
and (4), (d), (e) (2) and (3), (e)(4) (G) and 
(H), (e)(8), (f) and (g): 
(1) Docket Scheduling and Control 
System (JUSTICE/PRC–001). 
(2) Inmate and Supervision Files Sys-
tem (JUSTICE/PRC–003). 
(3) Labor and Pension Case, Legal 
File, and General Correspondence Sys-
tem (JUSTICE/PRC–004). 
(4) Statistical, Educational and De-
velopmental System (JUSTICE/PRC– 
006). 
(5) Workload Record, Decision Re-
sult, and Annual Report System (JUS-
TICE/PRC–007). 
These exemptions apply only to the ex-
tent that information in these systems 
is subject to exemptions pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552a(j)(2). 
(b) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because re-
vealing disclosure of accountings to in-
mates and persons on supervision could 
compromise legitimate law enforce-
ment activities and U.S. Parole Com-
mission responsibilities. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) because the 
exemption from subsection (d) will 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00351 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR342 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.88 
make notification of disputes inappli-
cable. 
(3) From subsection (d) because this 
is essential to protect internal proc-
esses by which Commission personnel 
are able to formulate decisions and 
policies with regard to federal pris-
oners and persons under supervision, to 
prevent disclosures of information to 
federal inmates or persons on super-
vision that would jeopardize legitimate 
correctional interests of security, cus-
tody, supervision, or rehabilitation, to 
permit receipt of relevant information 
from other federal agencies, state and 
local law enforcement agencies, and 
federal and state probation and judicial 
offices, to allow private citizens to ex-
press freely their opinions for or 
against parole, to allow relevant crimi-
nal history type information of co-de-
fendants to be kept in files, to allow 
medical, psychiatric and sociological 
material to be available to professional 
staff, and to allow a candid process of 
fact selection, opinion formulation, 
evaluation and recommendation to be 
continued by professional staff. The 
legal files contain case development 
material and, in addition to other rea-
sons, should be exempt under the attor-
ney-client privilege. Each labor or pen-
sion applicant has had served upon him 
the material in his file which he did 
not prepare and may see his own file at 
any time. 
(4) From subsection (e)(2) because 
primary collection of information di-
rectly from federal inmates or persons 
on supervision about criminal sen-
tence, criminal records, institutional 
performance, readiness for release from 
custody, or need to be returned to cus-
tody is highly impractical and inappro-
priate. 
(5) From subsection (e)(3) because ap-
plication of this provision to the oper-
ations and collection of information by 
the Commission which is primarily 
from sources other than the individual, 
is inappropriate. 
(6) From subsections (e)(4) (G) and 
(H) because exemption from the access 
provisions of (d) makes publication of 
agency procedures under (d) inappli-
cable. 
(7) From subsection (e)(8) because the 
nature of the Commission’s activities 
renders notice of compliance with com-
pulsory legal process impractical. 
(8) From subsection (f) because ex-
emption from the provisions of sub-
section (d) will render compliance with 
provisions of this subsection inappli-
cable. 
(9) From subsection (g) because ex-
emption from the provisions of sub-
section (d) will render the provisions 
on suits to enforce (d) inapplicable. 
(c) Consistent with the legislative 
purpose of the Privacy Act of 1974 the 
U.S. Parole Commission will initiate a 
procedure whereby present and former 
prisoners and parolees may obtain cop-
ies of material in files relating to them 
that are maintained by the U.S. Parole 
Commission. Disclosure of the contents 
will be affected by providing copies of 
documents to requesters through the 
mails. Disclosure will be made to the 
same extent as would be made under 
the substantive exemptions of the Pa-
role Commission and Reorganization 
Act of 1976 (18 U.S.C. 4208) and Rule 32 
of the Federal Rules of Criminal Proce-
dure. The procedure relating to disclo-
sure of documents may be changed gen-
erally in the interest of improving the 
Commission’s system of disclosure or 
when required by pending or future de-
cisions and directions of the Depart-
ment of Justice. 
[Order No. 645–76, 41 FR 12640, Mar. 26, 1976, 
as amended by Order No. 14–78, 43 FR 45993, 
Oct. 5, 1978; Order No. 899–80, 45 FR 43703, 
June 30, 1980; Order No. 6–86, 51 FR 15477, Apr. 
24, 1986] 
§ 16.88 Exemption of Antitrust Divi-
sion Systems—limited access. 
(a) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a (c)(3), (d), 
(e)(4) (G) and (H), and (f): 
(1) Antitrust Caseload Evaluation 
System (ACES)—Monthly Report (JUS-
TICE/ATR–006). 
These exemptions apply only to the ex-
tent that information in this system is 
subject to exemption pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552a (k)(2). 
(b) Exemption from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because in-
formation in this system is maintained 
in aid of ongoing antitrust enforcement 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00352 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR343 
Department of Justice § 16.89 
investigations and proceedings. The re-
lease of the accounting of disclosures 
made under subsection (b) of the Act 
would permit the subject of an inves-
tigation of an actual or potential 
criminal or civil violation to determine 
whether he is the subject of an inves-
tigation. Disclosure of the accounting 
would therefore present a serious im-
pediment to antitrust law enforcement 
efforts. 
(2) From subsection (d) because ac-
cess to the information retrievable 
from this system and compiled for law 
enforcement purposes could result in 
the premature disclosure of the iden-
tity of the subject of an investigation 
of an actual or potential criminal or 
civil violation and information con-
cerning the nature of that investiga-
tion. This information could enable the 
subject to avoid detection or apprehen-
sion. This would present a serious im-
pediment to effective law enforcement 
since the subject could hinder or pre-
vent the successful completion of the 
investigation. Further, confidential 
business and financial information, the 
identities of confidential sources of in-
formation, third party privacy infor-
mation, and statutorily confidential 
information such as grand jury infor-
mation must be protected from disclo-
sure. 
(3) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and 
(H), and (f) because this system is ex-
empt from the individual access provi-
sions of subsection (d). 
(c) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a (c)(3), (d), 
(e)(4)(G) and (H), and (f): 
(1) Freedom of Information/Privacy— 
Requester/Subject Index File (JUS-
TICE/ATR–008). 
These exemptions apply to the extent 
that information in this system is sub-
ject to exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
552a (k)(2). 
(d) Because this system contains De-
partment of Justice civil and criminal 
law enforcement, investigatory 
records, exemptions from the par-
ticular subsections are justified for the 
following reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because the 
release of the accounting of disclosures 
made under subsection (b) of the Act 
would permit the subject of an inves-
tigation of an actual or potential 
criminal or civil violation to determine 
whether he is the subject of an inves-
tigation. Disclosure of accounting 
would therefore present a serious im-
pediment to antitrust law enforcement 
efforts. 
(2) From subsection (d) because ac-
cess to information in this system 
could result in the premature disclo-
sure of the identity of the subject of an 
investigation of an actual or potential 
criminal or civil violation and informa-
tion concerning the nature of the in-
vestigation. This information could en-
able the subject to avoid detection or 
apprehension. This would present a se-
rious impendiment to effective law en-
forcement since the subject could 
hinder or prevent the successful com-
pletion of the investigation. Further, 
confidential business and financial in-
formation, the identities of confiden-
tial sources of information, third party 
privacy information, and statutorily 
confidential information such as grand 
jury information must be protected 
from disclosure. 
(3) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and 
(H), and (f) because this system is ex-
empt from the individual access provi-
sions of subsection (d). 
[Order No. 2–86, 51 FR 884, Jan. 9, 1986] 
§ 16.89 Exemption of Civil Division 
Systems—limited access. 
(a) The following systems of records 
are exempted pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
552a(j)(2) from subsections (c) (3) and 
(4), (d), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(3), (e)(4) (G) and 
(H), (e)(5), (e)(8), and (g); in addition, 
the following systems of records are ex-
empted pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a (k)(1) 
and (k)(2) from subsections (c)(3), (d), 
(e)(1), (e)(4) (G) and (H): 
(1) Civil Division Case File System, 
JUSTICE/CIV–001. 
(2) Freedom of Information/Privacy 
Acts File System, JUSTICE/CIV–005. 
These exemptions apply only to the ex-
tent that information in these systems 
is subject to exemption pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552a (j)(2), (k)(1) and (k)(2). 
(b) Only that information which re-
lates to the investigation, prosecution, 
or defense of actual or potential crimi-
nal or civil litigation, or which has 
been properly classified in the interest 
of national defense and foreign policy 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00353 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR344 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.89 
is exempted for the reasons set forth 
from the following subsections: 
(1) Subsection (c)(3). To provide the 
subject of a criminal or civil matter or 
case under investigation with an ac-
counting of disclosures of records con-
cerning him or her would inform that 
individual (and others to whom the 
subject might disclose the records) of 
the existence, nature, or scope of that 
investigation and thereby seriously im-
pede law enforcement efforts by per-
mitting the record subject and others 
to avoid criminal penalties and civil 
remedies. 
(2) Subsections (c)(4), (e)(4) (G) and (H), 
and (g). These provisions are inappli-
cable to the extent that these systems 
of records are exempted from sub-
section (d). 
(3) Subsection (d). To the extent that 
information contained in these systems 
has been properly classified, relates to 
the investigation and/or prosecution of 
grand jury, civil fraud, and other law 
enforcement matters, disclosure could 
compromise matters which should be 
kept secret in the interest of national 
security or foreign policy; compromise 
confidential investigations or pro-
ceedings; hamper sensitive civil or 
criminal investigations; impede affirm-
ative enforcement actions based upon 
alleged violations of regulations or of 
civil or criminal laws; reveal the iden-
tity of confidential sources; and result 
in unwarranted invasions of the pri-
vacy of others. Amendment of the 
records would interfere with ongoing 
criminal law enforcement proceedings 
and impose an impossible administra-
tive burden by requiring criminal in-
vestigations to be continuously re-
investigated. 
(4) Subsection (e)(1). In the course of 
criminal or civil investigations, cases, 
or matters, the Civil Division may ob-
tain information concerning the actual 
or potential violation of laws which are 
not strictly within its statutory au-
thority. In the interest of effective law 
enforcement, it is necessary to retain 
such information since it may estab-
lish patterns of criminal activity or 
avoidance of other civil obligations and 
provide leads for Federal and other law 
enforcement agencies. 
(5) Subsection (e)(2). To collect infor-
mation from the subject of a criminal 
investigation or prosecution would 
present a serious impediment to law 
enforcement in that the subject (and 
others to whom the subject might be in 
contact) would be informed of the ex-
istence of the investigation and would 
therefore be able to avoid detection or 
apprehension, to influence witnesses 
improperly, to destroy evidence, or to 
fabricate testimony. 
(6) Subsection (e)(3). To comply with 
this requirement during the course of a 
criminal investigation or prosecution 
could jeopardize the investigation by 
disclosing the existence of a confiden-
tial investigation, revealing the iden-
tity of witnesses or confidential in-
formants, or impeding the information 
gathering process. 
(7) Subsection (e)(5). In compiling in-
formation for criminal law enforce-
ment purposes, the accuracy, com-
pleteness, timeliness and relevancy of 
the information obtained cannot al-
ways be immediately determined. As 
new details of an investigation come to 
light, seemingly irrelevant or untimely 
information may acquire new signifi-
cance and the accuracy of such infor-
mation can often only be determined in 
a court of law. Compliance with this 
requirement would therefore restrict 
the ability of government attorneys in 
exercising their judgment in devel-
oping information necessary for effec-
tive law enforcement. 
(8) Subsection (e)(8). To serve notice 
would give persons sufficient warning 
to evade law enforcement efforts. 
(c) The following system of records is 
exempted pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) 
from subsections (c) (3) and (4), (d), 
(e)(1) and (e)(5); in addition, this sys-
tem is also exempted pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) from subsections 
(c)(3), (d), and (e)(1). 
Consumer Inquiry/Investigatory System, 
JUSTICE/CIV–006. 
These exemptions apply only to the ex-
tent that information in this system of 
records is subject to exemption pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 552a (j)(2) and (k)(2). 
(d) Only that information compiled 
for criminal or civil law enforcement 
purposes is exempted for the reasons 
set forth from the following sub-
sections: 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00354 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR345 
Department of Justice § 16.90 
(1) Subsections (c)(3). This system oc-
casionally contains investigatory ma-
terial based on complaints of actual or 
alleged criminal or civil violations. To 
provide the subject of a criminal or 
civil matter or case under investiga-
tion with an accounting of disclosures 
of records concerning him/her would in-
form that individual of the existence, 
nature, or scope of that investigation, 
and thereby seriously impede law en-
forcement efforts by permitting the 
record subject and other persons to 
whom he might disclose the records to 
avoid criminal penalties and civil rem-
edies. 
(2) Subsections (c)(4). This subsection 
is inapplicable to the extent that an 
exemption is being claimed for sub-
section (d). 
(3) Subsection (d). Disclosure of infor-
mation relating to the investigation of 
complaints of alleged violation of 
criminal or civil law could interfere 
with the investigation, reveal the iden-
tity of confidential sources, and result 
in an unwarranted invasion of the pri-
vacy of others. Amendment of the 
records would interfere with ongoing 
criminal law enforcement proceedings 
and impose an impossible administra-
tive burden by requiring criminal in-
vestigations to be continuously re-
investigated. 
(4) Subsection (e)(1). In the course of 
criminal or civil investigations, cases, 
or matters, the Civil Division may ob-
tain information concerning the actual 
or potential violation of laws which are 
not strictly within its statutory au-
thority. In the interest of effective law 
enforcement, it is necessary to retain 
such information since it may estab-
lish patterns of criminal activity or 
avoidance of other civil obligations and 
provide leads for Federal and other law 
enforcement agencies. 
(5) Subsection (e)(5). In compiling in-
formation for criminal law enforce-
ment purposes, the accuracy, com-
pleteness, timeliness and relevancy of 
the information obtained cannot al-
ways be immediately determined. As 
new details of an investigation come to 
light, seemingly irrelevant or untimely 
information may acquire new signifi-
cance and the accuracy of such infor-
mation can often only be determined in 
a court of law. Compliance with this 
requirement would therefore restrict 
the ability of government attorneys in 
exercising their judgment in devel-
oping information necessary for effec-
tive law enforcement. 
(e) The following system of records is 
exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a (j)(2) 
and (k)(2) from subsection (d): 
Congressional and Citizen Correspondence 
File, JUSTICE/CIV–007. 
This exemption applies only to the ex-
tent that information in this system is 
subject to exemption pursuant to 5 
U.S.C 552a (j)(2) and (k)(2). 
(f) Only that portion of the Congres-
sional and Citizen Correspondence File 
maintained by the Communications Of-
fice which consists of criminal or civil 
investigatory information is exempted 
for the reasons set forth from the fol-
lowing subsection: 
(1) Subsection (d). Disclosure of inves-
tigatory information would jeopardize 
the integrity of the investigative proc-
ess, disclose the identity of individuals 
who furnished information to the gov-
ernment under an express or implied 
promise that their identities would be 
held in confidence, and result in an un-
warranted invasion of the privacy of 
others. Amendment of the records 
would interfere with ongoing criminal 
law enforcement proceedings and im-
pose an impossible administrative bur-
den by requiring criminal investiga-
tions to be continuously reinves-
tigated. 
[Order No. 27–88, 54 FR 113, Jan. 4, 1989] 
§ 16.90 Exemption of Civil Rights Divi-
sion Systems. 
(a) The following system of records is 
exempted from subsections (c)(3) and 
(4); (d)(1), (2), (3) and (4); (e)(1), (2), (3), 
(5), and (8); and (g) of the Privacy Act 
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a (j) and (k): 
Central Civil Rights Division Index 
File and Associated Records (JUSTICE/ 
CRT–001). These exemptions apply only 
to the extent that information in a 
record is subject to exemption pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 552a (j)(2), (k)(1) and 
(k)(2). 
(b) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00355 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR346 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.90 
(1) Subsection (c)(3). To provide the 
subject of a criminal, civil, or adminis-
trative matter or case under investiga-
tion with an accounting of disclosures 
of records concerning him or her could 
inform that individual of the existence, 
nature, or scope of an actual or poten-
tial criminal or civil violation to gain 
valuable information concerning the 
nature and scope of the investigation, 
to determine whether he or she is the 
subject of the investigation, and seri-
ously impede law enforcement efforts 
by permitting the record subject and 
other persons to whom he or she might 
disclose the records to avoid criminal 
penalties, civil remedies, or adminis-
trative measures. 
(2) Subsection (c)(4). This subsection is 
inapplicable to the extent that an ex-
emption is being claimed for sub-
section (d). 
(3) Subsection (d)(1). Disclosure of in-
vestigatory information could interfere 
with the investigation, reveal the iden-
tity of confidential sources, and result 
in an unwarranted invasion of the pri-
vacy of others. Disclosure of classified 
national security information would 
cause damage to the national security 
of the United States. In addition, these 
records may be subject to protective 
orders entered by federal courts to pro-
tect their confidentiality. Further, 
many of the records contained in this 
system are copies of documents which 
are the property of state agencies and 
were obtained under express or implied 
promises to strictly protect their con-
fidentiality. 
(4) Subsection (d)(2). Amendment of 
the records could interfere with ongo-
ing criminal or civil law enforcement 
proceedings and impose an impossible 
administrative burden by requiring in-
vestigations to be continuously re-
investigated. 
(5) Subsection (d)(3) and (4). These sub-
sections are inapplicable to the extent 
exemption is claimed from (d)(1) and 
(2). 
(6) Subsection (e)(1). It is often impos-
sible to determine in advance if inves-
tigatory records contained in this sys-
tem are accurate, relevant, timely and 
complete, but, in the interests of effec-
tive law enforcement, it is necessary to 
retain this information to aid in estab-
lishing patterns of activity and provide 
investigative leads. 
(7) Subsection (e)(2). To collect infor-
mation from the subject individual 
could serve notice that he or she is the 
subject of a criminal investigation and 
thereby present a serious impediment 
to such investigation. 
(8) Subsection (e)(3). To inform indi-
viduals as required by this subsection 
could reveal the existence of a criminal 
or civil investigation and compromise 
investigative efforts. 
(9) Subsection (e)(5). It is often impos-
sible to determine in advance if inves-
tigatory records contained in this sys-
tem are accurate, relevant, timely and 
complete, but, in the interests of effec-
tive law enforcement, it is necessary to 
retain this information to aid in estab-
lishing patterns of activity and provide 
investigative leads. 
(10) Subsection (e)(8). To serve notice 
could give persons sufficient warning 
to evade investigative efforts. 
(11) Subsection (g). This subsection is 
inapplicable to the extent that the sys-
tem is exempt from other specific sub-
sections of the Privacy Act. 
(c) The following system of records is 
exempted from subsections (d)(1), (2), 
(3) and (4) of the Privacy Act pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 552a (k): ‘‘Files on Employ-
ment Civil Rights Matters Referred by 
the Equal Employment Opportunity 
Commission (JUSTICE/CRT–007).’’ 
These exemptions apply only to the ex-
tent that information in a record is 
subject to exemption pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552a (k)(2). 
(d) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) Subsection (d)(1). Disclosure of in-
vestigatory information could interfere 
with the investigation, reveal the iden-
tity of confidential sources, and result 
in an unwarranted invasion of the pri-
vacy of others. In addition, these 
records may be subject to protective 
orders entered by federal courts to pro-
tect their confidentiality. Further, 
many of the records contained in this 
system are copies of documents which 
are the property of state agencies and 
were obtained under express or implied 
promises to strictly protect their con-
fidentiality. 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00356 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR347 
Department of Justice § 16.91 
(2) Subsection (d)(2). Amendment of 
the records could interfere with ongo-
ing criminal or civil law enforcement 
proceedings and impose an impossible 
administrative burden by requiring in-
vestigations to be continuously re-
investigated. 
(3) Subsection (d)(1), (2), (3) and (4). 
This system contains investigatory 
material compiled by the Equal Oppor-
tunity Commission pursuant to its au-
thority under 42 U.S.C. 2000e–8. Titles 
42 U.S.C. 2000e–5(b), 42 U.S.C. 2000e–8(e), 
and 44 U.S.C. 3508 make it unlawful to 
make public in any manner whatsoever 
any information obtained by the Com-
mission pursuant to the authority. 
(4) Subsection (d)(3) and (4). These sub-
sections are inapplicable to the extent 
exemption is claimed from (d)(1) and 
(2). 
[Order No. 019–2003, 68 FR 61622, Oct. 29, 2003] 
§ 16.91 Exemption of Criminal Division 
Systems—limited access, as indi-
cated. 
(a) The following systems of records 
are exempted pursuant to the provi-
sions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) from sub-
sections (c) (3) and (4), (d), (e) (1), (2) 
and (3), (e)(4) (G), (H) and (I), (e) (5) and 
(8), (f) and (g) of 5 U.S.C. 552a; in addi-
tion, the following systems of records 
are exempted pursuant to the provi-
sions of 5 U.S.C. 552a (k)(1) and (k)(2) 
from subsections (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4) 
(G), (H), and (I), and (f) of 5 U.S.C. 552a: 
(1) Central Criminal Division, Index 
File and Associated Records System of 
Records (JUSTICE/CRM–001)—Limited 
Access. This system of records and as-
sociated exemptions is adopted by and 
applies with equal force and effect to 
the National Security Division, until 
modified, superseded, or revoked in ac-
cordance with law. 
(2) General Crimes Section, Criminal 
Division, Central Index File and Asso-
ciated Records System of Records 
(JUSTICE/CRM–004)—Limited Access. 
These exemptions apply to the extent 
that information in those systems are 
subject to exemption pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552a (j)(2), (k)(1) and (k)(2). 
(b) The systems of records listed 
under paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of 
this section are exempted, for the rea-
sons set forth, from the following pro-
visions of 5 U.S.C. 552a: 
(1). (c)(3). The release of the disclo-
sure accounting for disclosures made 
pursuant to subsection (b) of the Act, 
including those permitted under the 
routine uses published for these sys-
tems of records, would permit the sub-
ject of an investigation of an actual or 
potential criminal, civil, or regulatory 
violation to determine whether he is 
the subject of investigation, or to ob-
tain valuable information concerning 
the nature of that investigation, and 
the information obtained, or the iden-
tity of witnesses and informants and 
would therefore present a serious im-
pediment to law enforcement. In addi-
tion, disclosure of the accounting 
would amount to notice to the indi-
vidual of the existence of a record; such 
notice requirement under subsection 
(f)(1) is specifically exempted for these 
systems of records. 
(2). (c)(4). Since an exemption is 
being claimed for subsection (d) of the 
Act (Access to Records) this subsection 
is inapplicable to the extent that these 
systems of records are exempted from 
subsection (d). 
(3). (d). Access to the records con-
tained in these systems would inform 
the subject of an investigation of an 
actual or potential criminal, civil, or 
regulatory violation of the existence of 
that investigation, or the nature and 
scope of the information and evidence 
obtained as to his activities, of the 
identity of witnesses and informants, 
or would provide information that 
could enable the subject to avoid detec-
tion or apprehension. These factors 
would present a serious impediment to 
effective law enforcement because they 
could prevent the successful comple-
tion of the investigation, endanger the 
physical safety of witnesses or inform-
ants, and lead to the improper influ-
encing of witnesses, the destruction of 
evidence, or the fabrication of testi-
mony. 
(4). (e)(1). The notices of these sys-
tems of records published in the F
ED-
ERAL REGISTER set forth the basic stat-
utory or related authority for mainte-
nance of this system. However, in the 
course of criminal or other law en-
forcement investigations, cases, and 
matters, the Criminal Division or its 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00357 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR348 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.91 
components will occasionally obtain 
information concerning actual or po-
tential violations of law that are not 
strictly within its statutory or other 
authority or may compile information 
in the course of an investigation which 
may not be relevant to a specific pros-
ecution. In the interests of effective 
law enforcement, it is necessary to re-
tain such information in these systems 
of records since it can aid in estab-
lishing patterns of criminal activity 
and can provide valuable leads for fed-
eral and other law enforcement agen-
cies. 
(5). (e)(2). In a criminal investigation 
or prosecution, the requirement that 
information be collected to the great-
est extent practicable from the subject 
individual would present a serious im-
pediment to law enforcement because 
the subject of the investigation or 
prosecution would be placed on notice 
as to the existence of the investigation 
and would therefore be able to avoid 
detection or apprehension, to influence 
witnesses improperly, to destroy evi-
dence, or to fabricate testimony. 
(6). (e)(3). The requirement that indi-
viduals supplying information be pro-
vided with a form stating the require-
ments of subsection (e)(3) would con-
stitute a serious impediment to law en-
forcement in that it could compromise 
the existence of a confidential inves-
tigation or reveal the identity of wit-
nesses or confidential informants. 
(7). (e)(4) (G) and (H). Since an ex-
emption is being claimed for sub-
sections (f) (Agency Rules) and (d) (Ac-
cess to Records) of the Act these sub-
sections are inapplicable to the extent 
that these systems of records are ex-
empted from subsections (f) and (d). 
(8). (e)(4)(I). The categories of sources 
of the records in these systems have 
been published in the F
EDERAL REG-
ISTER in broad generic terms in the be-
lief that this is all that subsection 
(e)(4)(I) of the Act requires. In the 
event, however, that this subsection 
should be interpreted to require more 
detail as to the identity of sources of 
the records in these systems, exemp-
tion from this provision is necessary in 
order to protect the confidentiality of 
the sources of criminal and other law 
enforcement information. Such exemp-
tion is further necessary to protect the 
privacy and physical safety of wit-
nesses and informants. 
(9). (e)(5). In the collection of infor-
mation for criminal law enforcement 
purposes it is impossible to determine 
in advance what information is accu-
rate, relevant, timely, and complete. 
With the passage of time, seemingly ir-
relevant or untimely information may 
acquire new significance as further in-
vestigation brings new details to light 
and the accuracy of such information 
can often only be determined in a court 
of law. The restrictions of subsection 
(e)(5) would restrict the ability of 
trained investigators, intelligence ana-
lysts, and government attorneys in ex-
ercising their judgment in reporting on 
information and investigations and im-
pede the development of criminal or 
other intelligence necessary for effec-
tive law enforcement. 
(10). (e)(8). The individual notice re-
quirements of subsection (e)(8) could 
present a serious impediment to law 
enforcement as this could interfere 
with the ability to issue warrants or 
subpoenas and could reveal investiga-
tive techniques, procedures, or evi-
dence. 
(11). (f). Procedures for notice to an 
individual pursuant to subsection (f)(1) 
as to the existence of records per-
taining to him dealing with an actual 
or potential criminal, civil, or regu-
latory investigation or prosecution 
must be exempted because such notice 
to an individual would be detrimental 
to the successful conduct and/or com-
pletion of an investigation or prosecu-
tion pending or future. In addition, 
mere notice of the fact of an investiga-
tion could inform the subject or others 
that their activities are under or may 
become the subject of an investigation 
and could enable the subjects to avoid 
detection or apprehension, to influence 
witnesses improperly, to destroy evi-
dence, or to fabricate testimony. 
Since an exemption is being claimed 
for subsection (d) of the Act (Access to 
Records) the rules require pursuant to 
subsection (f) (2) through (5) are inap-
plicable to these systems of records to 
the extent that these systems of 
records are exempted from subsection 
(d). 
(12). (g). Since an exemption is being 
claimed for subsections (d) (Access to 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00358 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR349 
Department of Justice § 16.91 
Records) and (f) (Agency Rules) this 
section is inapplicable, and is exempted 
for the reasons set forth for those sub-
sections, to the extent that these sys-
tems of records are exempted from sub-
sections (d) and (f). 
(13). In addition, exemption is 
claimed for these systems of records 
from compliance with the following 
provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 
U.S.C. 552a) pursuant to the provisions 
of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1): Subsections 
(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4) (G), (H) and (I) 
and (f) to the extent that the records 
contained in these systems are specifi-
cally authorized to be kept secret in 
the interests of national defense and 
foreign policy. 
(c) The following system of records is 
exempted pursuant to the provisions of 
5 U.S.C. 552a(j) (2) from subsection (c) 
(3) and (4), (d), (e) (1), (2) and (3), (e) (4) 
(G), (H) and (I), (e) (5) and (8), (f) and 
(g) of 5 U.S.C. 552a: 
Criminal Division Witness Security File Sys-
tem of Records(JUSTICE/CRM–002). 
These exemptions apply to the extent 
that information in this system is sub-
ject to exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
552a(j)(2). 
(d) The system of records listed under 
paragraph (c) of this section is exempt-
ed, for the reasons set forth, from the 
following provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a: 
(1). (c)(3) The release of the disclo-
sure accounting for disclosures made 
pursuant to subsection (b) of the Act, 
including those permitted under the 
routine uses published for these sys-
tems of records, would permit the sub-
ject of an investigation of an actual or 
potential criminal violation, which 
may include those protected under the 
Witness Security Program, to deter-
mine whether he is the subject of a 
criminal investigation, to obtain valu-
able information concerning the nature 
of that investigation and the informa-
tion obtained, or the identity of wit-
nesses and informants and the nature 
of their reports, and would therefore 
present a serious impediment to law 
enforcement. In addition, disclosure of 
the accounting would amount to notice 
to the individual of the existence of a 
record; such notice requirement under 
subsection (f)(1) is specifically exempt-
ed for these systems of records. More-
over, disclosure of the disclosure ac-
counting to an individual protected 
under the Witness Security Program 
could jeopardize the effectiveness and 
security of the Program by revealing 
the methods and techniques utilized in 
relocating witnesses and could there-
fore jeopardize the ability to obtain, 
and to protect the confidentiality of, 
information compiled for purposes of a 
criminal investigation. 
(2). (c)(4) Since an exemption is being 
claimed for subsection (d) of the Act 
(Access to Records) this section is in-
applicable. 
(3). (d) Access to the records con-
tained in these systems would inform 
the subject of an investigation of an 
actual or potential criminal violation, 
which may include those protected 
under the Witness Security Program, 
of the existence of that investigation, 
of the nature and scope of the informa-
tion and evidence obtained as to his ac-
tivities, of the identity of witnesses 
and informants, or would provide infor-
mation that could enable the subject to 
avoid detection or apprehension. These 
factors would present a serious impedi-
ment to effective law enforcement be-
cause they could prevent the successful 
completion of the investigation, endan-
ger the physical safety of witnesses or 
informants, and lead to the improper 
influencing of witnesses, the destruc-
tion of evidence, or the fabrication of 
testimony. In addition, access to the 
records in these systems to an indi-
vidual protected under the Witness Se-
curity Program could jeopardize the ef-
fectiveness and security of the Pro-
gram by revealing the methods and 
techniques utilized in relocating wit-
nesses and could therefore jeopardize 
the ability to obtain, and to protect 
the confidentiality of, information 
compiled for purposes of a criminal in-
vestigation. 
(4). Exemption is claimed from sub-
section (e)(1) for the reasons stated in 
subsection (b)(4) of this section. 
(5). (e)(2) In the course of preparing a 
Witness Security Program for an indi-
vidual, much of the information is col-
lected from the subject. However, the 
requirement that the information be 
collected to the greatest extent prac-
ticable from the subject individual 
would present a serious impediment to 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00359 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR350 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.91 
criminal law enforcement because the 
individual himself may be the subject 
of a criminal investigation or have 
been a participant in, or observer of, 
criminal activity. As a result, it is nec-
essary to seek information from other 
sources. In addition, the failure to 
verify the information provided from 
the individual when necessary and to 
seek other information could jeop-
ardize the confidentiality of the Wit-
ness Security Program and lead to the 
obtaining and maintenance of incorrect 
and uninvestigated information on 
criminal matters. 
(6). (e)(3) The requirement that indi-
viduals supplying information be pro-
vided with a form stating the require-
ments of subsection (e)(3) would con-
stitute a serious impediment to law en-
forcement in that it could compromise 
or reveal the identity of witnesses and 
informants protected under the Wit-
ness Security Program. 
(7). (e)(4) (G) and (H). Since an ex-
emption is being claimed for sub-
sections (f) (Agency Rules) and (d) (Ac-
cess to Records) of the Act these sub-
sections are inapplicable. 
(8). (e)(4)(I). The categories of sources 
of the records in these systems have 
been published in the F
EDERAL REG-
ISTER in broad generic terms in the be-
lief that this is all that subsection 
(e)(4)(I) of the Act requires. In the 
event, however, that this subsection 
should be interpreted to require more 
detail as to the identity of sources of 
the records in the system, exemption 
from this provision is necessary in 
order to protect the confidentiality of 
the sources of criminal law, enforce-
ment information and of witnesses and 
informants protected under the Wit-
ness Security Program. 
(9). Exemption is claimed from sub-
sections (e)(5) and (e)(8) for the reasons 
stated in subsection (b)(9) and (b)(10) of 
this section. 
(10). Procedures for notice to an indi-
vidual pursuant to subsection (f)(1) as 
to the existence of records contained in 
these systems pertaining to him would 
inform the subject of an investigation 
of an actual or potential criminal vio-
lation, which may include those pro-
tected under the Witness Security Pro-
gram, of the existence of that inves-
tigation, of the nature and scope of the 
information and evidence obtained as 
to his activities, of the identity of wit-
nesses and informants, or would pro-
vide information that could enable the 
subject to avoid detection or apprehen-
sion. These factors would present a se-
rious impediment to effective law en-
forcement because they could prevent 
the successful conduct and/or comple-
tion of an investigation pending or fu-
ture, endanger the physical safety of 
witnesses or informants, and lead to 
the improper influencing of witnesses, 
the destruction of evidence, or the fab-
rication of testimony. In addition, no-
tices as to the existence of records con-
tained in these systems to an indi-
vidual protected under the Witness Se-
curity Program could jeopardize the ef-
fectiveness and security of the Pro-
gram by revealing the methods and 
techniques utilized in relocating wit-
nesses and could therefore jeopardize 
the ability to obtain, and to protect 
the confidentiality of, information 
compiled for purposes of a criminal in-
vestigation. 
Since an exemption is being claimed 
for subsection (d) of the Act (Access to 
Records) the rules required pursuant to 
subsection (f) (2) through (5) are inap-
plicable. 
(11). (g) Since an exemption is being 
claimed for subsections (d) (Access to 
Records) and (f) (Agency Rules) this 
section is inapplicable and is exempted 
for the reasons set forth for those sub-
sections. 
(e) The following system of records is 
exempted pursuant to the provisions of 
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) from subsections (c) 
(3) and (4), (d), (e) (4) (G), (H) and (I), 
(f), and (g) of 5 U.S.C. 552a: 
Organized Crime and Racketeering Section, 
Intelligence and Special Services Unit, In-
formation Request System of Records 
(JUSTICE/CRM–014). 
These exemptions apply to the extent 
that information in this system is sub-
ject to exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
552a(j)(2). 
(f) The system of records listed under 
paragraph (e) of this section is exempt-
ed for the reasons set forth, from the 
following provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a: 
(1). (c)(3). The release of the disclo-
sure accounting for disclosures made 
pursuant to subsection (b) of the Act, 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00360 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR351 
Department of Justice § 16.91 
including those permitted under the 
routine uses published for these sys-
tems of records, would permit the sub-
ject of an investigation of an actual or 
potential criminal violation to deter-
mine whether he is the subject of a 
criminal investigation and would 
therefore present a serious impediment 
to law enforcement. The records in 
these systems contain the names of the 
subjects of the files in question and the 
system is accessible by name of the 
person checking out the file and by 
name of the subject of the file. In addi-
tion, disclosure of the accounting 
would amount to notice to the indi-
vidual of the existence of a record; such 
notice requirement under subsection 
(f)(1) is specifically exempted for these 
systems of records. 
(2). (c)(4). Since an exemption is 
being claimed for subsection (d) of the 
Act (Access to Records) this section is 
inapplicable. 
(3). (d). Access to the records con-
tained in these systems would inform 
the subject of an investigation of an 
actual or potential criminal violation 
of the existence of that investigation. 
This would present a serious impedi-
ment to effective law enforcement be-
cause it could prevent the successful 
completion of the investigation, endan-
ger the physical safety of witnesses or 
informants, and lead to the improper 
influencing of witnesses, the destruc-
tion of evidence, or the fabrication of 
testimony. 
(4). Exemption is claimed from sub-
sections (e)(4) (G), (H) and (I) for the 
reasons stated in subsections (b)(7) and 
(b)(8) of this section. 
(5). (f). These systems may be 
accessed by the name of the person who 
is the subject of the file and who may 
also be the subject of a criminal inves-
tigation. Procedures for notice to an 
individual pursuant to subsection (f)(1) 
as to the existence of records per-
taining to him, which may deal with an 
actual or potential criminal investiga-
tion or prosecution, must be exempted 
because such notice to an individual 
would be detrimental to the successful 
conduct and/or completion of the inves-
tigation or prosecution pending or fu-
ture. In addition mere notice of the 
fact of an investigation could inform 
the subject or others that their activi-
ties are under or may become the sub-
ject of an investigation and could en-
able the subjects to avoid detection or 
apprehension, to influence witnesses 
improperly, to destroy evidence, or to 
fabricate testimony. 
Since an exemption is being claimed 
for subsection (d) of the Act (Access to 
Records) the rules required pursuant to 
subsection (f) (2) through (5) are inap-
plicable. 
(6). (g). Since an exemption is being 
claimed for subsections (d) (Access to 
Records) and (f) (Agency Rules) of the 
Act this section is inapplicable and is 
exempted for the reasons set forth for 
those subsections. 
(g) The following system of records is 
exempted pursuant to the provisions of 
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) from subsections 
(c)(4), (d), (e)(4) (G), (H) and (I), (f) and 
(g) of 5 U.S.C. 552a. 
File of Names Checked to Determine If 
Those Individuals Have Been the Subject of 
an Electronic Surveillance System of 
Records (JUSTICE/CRM–003). 
These exemptions apply to the extent 
that information in this system is sub-
ject to exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
552a(j)(2). 
(h) The system of records listed 
under paragraph (g) of this section is 
exempted, for the reasons set forth, 
from the following provisions of 5 
U.S.C. 552a: 
(1). (c)(4). Since an exemption is 
being claimed for subsection (d) of the 
Act (Access to Records) this section is 
inapplicable to the extent that this 
system of records is exempted from 
subsection (d). 
(2). (d). The records contained in this 
system of records generally consist of 
information filed with the court in re-
sponse to the request and made avail-
able to the requestor. To the extent 
that these records have been so filed, 
no exemption is sought from the provi-
sions of this subsection. Occasionally, 
the records contain pertinent logs of 
intercepted communications and other 
investigative reports not filed with the 
court. These records must be exempted 
because access to such records could 
inform the subject of an investigation 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00361 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR352 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.91 
of an actual or potential criminal vio-
lation of the existence of that inves-
tigation and of the nature of the infor-
mation and evidence obtained by the 
government. This would present a seri-
ous impediment to effective law en-
forcement because it could prevent the 
successful completion of the investiga-
tion, endanger the physical safety of 
witnesses or informants, and lead to 
the improper influencing of witnesses, 
the destruction of evidence, or the fab-
rication of testimony. 
(3). Exemption is claimed from sub-
sections (e)(4) (G), (H) and (I) for the 
reasons stated in subsections (b)(7) and 
(b)(8) of this section. 
(4). (f). The records contained in this 
system of records generally consist of 
information filed with the court and 
made available to the requestor. To the 
extent that these records have been so 
filed, no exemption is sought from the 
provisions of this subsection. Occasion-
ally, the records contain pertinent logs 
of intercepted communications and 
other investigative reports not filed 
with the court. These records must be 
exempted from a requirement of notifi-
cation as to their existence because 
such notice to an individual would be 
detrimental to the successful conduct 
and/or completion of a criminal inves-
tigation or prosecution pending or fu-
ture. In addition, mere notice of the ex-
istence of such logs or investigative re-
ports could inform the subject or oth-
ers that their activities are under or 
may become the subject of an inves-
tigation and could enable the subjects 
to avoid detection or apprehension, to 
influence witnesses improperly, to de-
stroy evidence, or to fabricate testi-
mony. 
Since an exemption is being claimed 
for subsection (d) of the Act (Access to 
Records) the rules required pursuant to 
subsection (f) (2) through (5) are inap-
plicable to the extent that this system 
of records is exempted for subsection 
(d). 
(6). (g). Since an exemption is being 
claimed for subsections (d) (Access to 
Records) and (f) (Agency Rules) this 
section is inapplicable, and is exempted 
for the reasons set forth for those sub-
sections, to the extent that this system 
of records is exempted from sub-
sections (d) and (f). 
(i) The following systems of records 
are exempted pursuant to the provi-
sions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) from sub-
sections (c) (3) and (4), (d), (e) (1), (2), 
and (3), (e)(4) (G), (H), and (I), (e) (5) 
and (8), (f) and (g) of 5 U.S.C. 552a: 
(1) Information File on Individuals 
and Commercial Entities Known or 
Suspected of Being Involved in Fraudu-
lent Activities System of Records 
(JUSTICE/CRM–006). 
(2) The Stocks and Bonds Intelligence 
Control Card File System of Records 
(JUSTICE/CRM–021). 
(3) Tax Disclosure Index File and As-
sociated Records (JUSTICE/CRM–025). 
These exemptions apply only to the ex-
tent that information in these systems 
is subject to exemption pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552a(j)(2). 
(j) The systems of records listed in 
paragraphs (i)(1), (i)(2), and (i)(3) of this 
section are exempted, for the reasons 
set forth, from the following provisions 
of 5 U.S.C. 552a: 
(1)(c)(3) The release of the disclosure 
accounting for disclosures made pursu-
ant to subsection (b) of the act, includ-
ing those permitted under the routine 
uses published for these systems of 
records, would permit the subject of an 
investigation of an actual or potential 
criminal violation to determine wheth-
er he is the subject of a criminal inves-
tigation, to obtain valuable informa-
tion concerning the nature of that in-
vestigation, and the information ob-
tained, or the identity of witnesses and 
informants, and would therefore 
present a serious impediment to law 
enforcement. In addition, disclosure of 
the accounting would amount to notice 
to the individual of the existence of a 
record; such notice requirement under 
subsection (f)(1) is specifically exempt-
ed for this system of records. 
(2)(c)(4) Since an exemption is being 
claimed for subsection (d) of the act 
(access to records), this section is inap-
plicable to the extent that these sys-
tems of records are exempted from sub-
section (d). 
(3)(d) Access to the records contained 
in these systems would inform the sub-
ject of an investigation of an actual or 
potential criminal violation of the ex-
istence of that investigation, of the na-
ture and scope of the information and 
evidence obtained as to his activities, 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00362 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR353 
Department of Justice § 16.91 
1 Paragraph (m) was redesignated as para-
graph (k) at 44 FR 54046, Sept. 18, 1979. 
of the identity of witnesses and inform-
ants, or would provide information 
that could enable the subject to avoid 
detection or apprehension. These fac-
tors would present a serious impedi-
ment to effective law enforcement be-
cause they could prevent the successful 
completion of the investigation, endan-
ger the physical safety of witnesses or 
informants, and lead to the improper 
influencing of witnesses, the destruc-
tion of evidence, or the fabrication of 
testimony. 
(4) Exemption is claimed from sub-
sections (e) (1), (2), and (3), (e)(4) (G), 
(H), and (I), (e)(5) and (e)(8) for the rea-
sons stated in subsections (b)(4), (b)(5), 
(b)(6), (b)(7), (b)(8), (b)(9), and (b)(10) of 
this section. 
(5)(f) Procedures for notice to an in-
dividual pursuant to subsection (f)(1) as 
to the existence of records pertaining 
to him dealing with an actual or poten-
tial criminal investigation or prosecu-
tion must be exempted because such 
notice to an individual would be detri-
mental to the successful conduct and/ 
or completion of an investigation or 
prosecution pending or future. In addi-
tion, mere notice of the fact of an in-
vestigation could inform the subject or 
others that their activities are under 
or may become the subject of an inves-
tigation and could enable the subjects 
to avoid detection or apprehension, to 
influence witnesses improperly, to de-
stroy evidence, or to fabricate testi-
mony. Since an exemption is being 
claimed for subsection (d) of the act 
(access to records), the rules required 
pursuant to subsection (f) (2) through 
(5) are inapplicable to these systems of 
records. 
(6)(g) Since an exemption is being 
claimed for subsections (d) (access to 
records) and (f) (Agency rules), this 
section is inapplicable and is exempted 
for the reasons set forth for those sub-
sections. 
(k) The following system of records is 
exempted pursuant to the provisions of 
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) from subsections (c) 
(3) and (4), (d), (e) (1), (2) and (3), (e)(4) 
(G), (H) and (I), (e) (5) and (8), (f) and 
(g) of 5 U.S.C. 552a; in addition, the fol-
lowing systems of records are exempted 
pursuant to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 
552a(k)(1) from subsections (c) (3), (d), 
(e)(1), (e)(4) (G), (H) and (I) and (f) of 5 
U.S.C. 552a: 
Organized Crime and Racketeering Section, 
Criminal Division, General Index File and 
Associated Records System of Records 
(JUSTICE/CRM–012). 
These exemptions apply to the extent 
that information in this system is sub-
ject to exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
552a(j)(2) and (k)(1). 
(l) The system of records listed under 
paragraph (m)
1 of this section is ex-
empted, for the reasons set forth, from 
the following provisions of 5 U.S.C. 
552a: 
(1). Exemption is claimed from sub-
sections (c) (3) and (4) and (d) for the 
reasons stated in subsections (j)(1), 
(j)(2) and (j)(3) of this section. 
(2). (e)(1). The notice for this system 
of records published in the F
EDERAL 
REGISTER sets forth the basic statutory 
or related authority for maintenance of 
this system. However, in the course of 
criminal investigations, cases, and 
matters, the Organized Crime and 
Racketeering Section will occasionally 
obtain information concerning actual 
or potential violations of law that are 
not strictly within its statutory or 
other authority, or may compile infor-
mation in the course of an investiga-
tion which may not be relevant to a 
specific prosecution. In the interests of 
effective law enforcement, it is nec-
essary to retain such information in 
this system of records since it can aid 
in establishing patterns of criminal ac-
tivity and can provide valuable leads 
for federal and other law enforcement 
agencies. 
(3). Exemption is claimed from sub-
sections (e) (2) and (3), (e)(4) (G), (H) 
and (I), (e) (5) and (8), (f) and (g) for the 
reasons stated in subsections (b)(5), 
(b)(6), (b)(7), (b)(8), (b)(9), (b)(10), (b)(11) 
and (b)(12) of this section. 
(4). In addition, exemption is claimed 
for this system of records from compli-
ance with the following provisions of 
the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a) 
pursuant to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 
552a(k)(1): Subsections (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), 
(e)(4) (G), (H) and (I) and (f) to the ex-
tent that the records contained in this 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00363 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR354 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.91 
system are specifically authorized to 
be kept secret in the interests of na-
tional defense and foreign policy. 
(m) The following system of records 
is exempted pursuant to the provisions 
of 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) from subsections 
(c) (3) and (4), (d), (e) (2) and (3), (e) (4) 
(G), (H) and (I), (e) (8), (f) and (g) of 5 
U.S.C. 552a: 
Requests to the Attorney General For Ap-
proval of Applications to Federal Judges 
For Electronic Interceptions System of 
Records (JUSTICE/CRM–019). 
These exemptions apply only to the ex-
tent that information in this system is 
subject to exemption pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552a(j)(2). 
(n) The system of records listed in 
paragraph (m) of this section is ex-
empted for the reasons set forth, from 
the following provisions of 5 U.S.C. 
552a: 
(1). (c)(3). The release of the disclo-
sure accounting for disclosures made 
pursuant to subsection (b) of the Act, 
including those permitted under the 
routine uses published for these sys-
tems of records, would permit the sub-
ject of an electronic interception to ob-
tain valuable information concerning 
the interception, including information 
as to whether he is the subject of a 
criminal investigation, by means other 
than those provided for by statute. 
Such information could interfere with 
the successful conduct and/or comple-
tion of a criminal investigation, and 
would therefore present a serious im-
pediment to law enforcement. In addi-
tion, disclosure of the accounting 
would amount to notice to the indi-
vidual of the existence of a record; such 
notice requirement under subsection 
(f)(1) is specifically exempted for these 
systems of records. 
(2). (c)(4). Since an exemption is 
being claimed for subsection (d) of the 
Act (Access to Records) this section is 
inapplicable. 
(3). (d). Access to the records con-
tained in these systems would inform 
the subject of an electronic intercep-
tion of the existence of such surveil-
lance including information as to 
whether he is the subject of a criminal 
investigation by means other than 
those provided for by statute. This 
could interfere with the successful con-
duct and/or completion of a criminal 
investigation and therefore present a 
serious impediment to law enforce-
ment. 
(4). (e)(2). In the context of an elec-
tronic interception, the requirement 
that information be collected to the 
greatest extent practicable from the 
subject individual would present a seri-
ous impediment to law enforcement be-
cause the subject of the investigation 
or prosecution would be placed on no-
tice as to the existence of the inves-
tigation and this would therefore de-
stroy the efficacy of the interception. 
(5). (e)(3). The requirement that indi-
viduals supplying information be pro-
vided with a form stating the require-
ments of subsection (e)(3) would con-
stitute a serious impediment to law en-
forcement in that it could compromise 
the existence of a confidential elec-
tronic interception or reveal the iden-
tity of witnesses or confidential in-
formants. 
(6). (e)(4) (G) and (H). Since an ex-
emption is being claimed for sub-
sections (f) (Agency Rules) and (d) (Ac-
cess to Records) of the Act these sub-
sections are inapplicable. 
(7). Exemption is claimed from sub-
sections (e)(4)(I) and (e)(8) for the rea-
sons stated in subsections (b)(8) and 
(b)(10) of this section. 
(8). (f). Procedures for notice to an in-
dividual pursuant to subsection (f)(1) as 
to the existence of records pertaining 
to him dealing with an electronic 
interception other than pursuant to 
statute must be exempted because such 
notice to an individual would be detri-
mental to the successful conduct and/ 
or completion of an investigation pend-
ing or future. In addition, mere notice 
of the fact of an electronic interception 
could inform the subject or others that 
their activities are under or may be-
come the subject of an investigation 
and could enable the subjects to avoid 
detection or apprehension, to influence 
witnesses improperly, to destroy evi-
dence, or to fabricate testimony. 
Since an exemption is being claimed 
for subsection (d) of the Act (Access to 
Records) the rules required pursuant to 
subsection (f)(2) through (5) are inap-
plicable to these systems of records to 
the extent that these systems of 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00364 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR355 
Department of Justice § 16.91 
2 Paragraph (q) was redesignated as para-
graph (o) at 44 FR 54046, Sept. 18, 1979. 
records are exempted from subsection 
(d). 
(9). (g). Since an exemption is being 
claimed for subsection (d) (Access to 
Records) and (f) (Agency Rules) this 
section is inapplicable, and is exempted 
for the reasons set forth for those sub-
sections, to the extent that these sys-
tems of records are exempted from sub-
section (d) and (f). 
(o) The following system of records is 
exempted pursuant to the provisions of 
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) from subsections (c) 
(3) and (4), (d), (e) (2) and (3), (e) (4) (G), 
(H), and (I), (e)(8), (f) and (g) of 5 U.S.C. 
552a; in addition the following system 
of records is exempted pursuant to the 
provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1) and 
(k)(2) from subsections (c)(3), (d), (e)(4) 
(G), (H) and (I), and (f) of 5 U.S.C. 552a: 
Witness Immunity Records System of 
Records (JUSTICE/CRM–022). 
These exemptions apply only to the ex-
tent that information in this system is 
subject to exemption pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552a (j)(2) and (k)(1) and (k)(2). 
(p) The system of records listed under 
paragraph (q)
2 of this section is ex-
empted, for the reasons set forth, from 
the following provisions of 5 U.S.C. 
552a: 
(1). (c)(3). Release of the accounting 
of disclosures made pursuant to sub-
section (b) of the Act, including those 
permitted under the routine uses pub-
lished for this system of records, (a) as 
to a witness for whom immunity has 
been proposed, would inform the indi-
vidual of the existence of the proposed 
immunity prematurely, thus creating a 
serious impediment to effective law en-
forcement in that the witness could 
flee, destroy evidence, or fabricate tes-
timony; and (b) as to a witness to 
whom immunity has been granted, or 
for whom it has been denied, would re-
veal the nature and scope of the activi-
ties, if any, of the witness known to 
the government, which would also cre-
ate a serious impediment to effective 
law enforcement. 
(2). (c)(4). Since an exemption is 
being claimed for subsection (d) of the 
Act (Access to Records) this section is 
inapplicable to the extent that this 
system of records is exempted from 
subsection (d). 
(3). (d). Access to the records con-
tained in this system (a) as to a wit-
ness for whom immunity has been pro-
posed, would inform the individual of 
the existence of the proposed immunity 
prematurely, thus presenting a serious 
impediment to effective law enforce-
ment in that the witness could flee, de-
stroy evidence, or fabricate testimony; 
and (b) as to a witness to whom immu-
nity has been granted, or for whom it 
has been denied, would reveal the na-
ture and scope of the activities, if any, 
of the witness known to the govern-
ment, which would also create a seri-
ous impediment to effective law en-
forcement. 
(4). (e)(2). In a witness immunity re-
quest matter, the requirement that in-
formation be collected to the greatest 
extent practicable from the subject in-
dividual would present a serious im-
pediment to law enforcement because 
the subject of the immunity request 
and often the subject of the underlying 
investigation or prosecution would be 
placed on notice as to the existence of 
the investigation and would therefore 
be able to avoid detection or apprehen-
sion, to influence witnesses improp-
erly, to destroy evidence, or to fab-
ricate testimony. 
(5). Exemption is claimed from sub-
sections (e)(3), (e)(4)(G), (H) and (I), and 
(e)(8) for the reasons stated in sub-
sections (b)(6), (b)(7), (b)(8) and (b)(10) 
of this section. 
(6). (f). Procedures for notice to an in-
dividual pursuant to subsection (f)(1) as 
to the existence of records pertaining 
to him (a) as to a witness for whom im-
munity has been proposed, would in-
form the individual of the existence of 
the proposed immunity prematurely, 
thus presenting a serious impediment 
to effective law enforcement in that 
the witness could flee, destroy evi-
dence, or fabricate testimony; and (b) 
as to a witness to whom immunity has 
been granted, or for whom it has been 
denied, would reveal the nature and 
scope of the activity, if any, of the wit-
ness known to the government, which 
would also create a serious impediment 
to effective law enforcement. 
Since an exemption is being claimed 
for subsection (d) of the Act (Access to 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00365 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR356 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.91 
Records) the rules required pursuant to 
subsection (f)(2) through (5) are inap-
plicable to this system of records to 
the extent that this system of records 
is exempted from subsection (d). 
(7). (g). Since an exemption is being 
claimed for subsections (d) (Access to 
Records) and (f) (Agency Rules) this 
section is inapplicable, and is exempted 
for the reasons set forth for those sub-
sections, to the extent that this system 
of records is exempted for subsections 
(d) and (f). 
(8). In addition, exemption is claimed 
for this system of records from compli-
ance with the following provisions of 
the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a) 
pursuant to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 
552a(k)(1): subsections (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), 
(e)(4) (G), (H) and (I) and (f) to the ex-
tent that the records contained in this 
system are specifically authorized to 
be kept secret in the interests of na-
tional defense and foreign policy. 
(q) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c) (3) and (4), 
(d), (e) (1), (2) and (3), (e)(4) (G), (H) and 
(I), (e) (5) and (8), (f), and (g): 
(1) Freedom of Information/Privacy 
Act Records (JUSTICE/CRM–024) 
These exemptions apply to the extent 
that information in this system is sub-
ject to exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
552a(j)(2), (k)(1) and (k)(2). 
(r) Because this system contains De-
partment of Justice civil and criminal 
law enforcement, investigatory 
records, it is exempted for the reasons 
set forth from the following provisions 
of 5 U.S.C. 552a: 
(1)(c)(3). The release of the disclosure 
accounting would present a serious im-
pediment to law enforcement by per-
mitting the subject of an investigation 
of an actual or potential criminal, 
civil, or regulatory violation to deter-
mine whether he is the subject of in-
vestigation, or to obtain valuable in-
formation concerning the nature of 
that investigation and the information 
obtained, or to identify witnesses and 
informants. 
(2)(c)(4). Since an exemption is being 
claimed for subsection (d) of the Act 
(Access to Records), this subsection is 
inapplicable to the extent that this 
system of records is exempted from 
subsection (d). 
(3)(d). Access to records contained in 
this system would enable the subject of 
an investigation of an actual or poten-
tial criminal or civil case or regulatory 
violation to determine whether he or 
she is the subject of investigation, to 
obtain valuable information con-
cerning the nature and scope of the in-
vestigation, and information or evi-
dence obtained as to his/her activities, 
to identify witnesses and informants, 
or to avoid detection or apprehension. 
Such results could prevent the success-
ful completion of the investigation, en-
danger the physical safety of witnesses 
or informants, lead to the improper in-
fluencing of witnesses, the destruction 
of evidence, or the fabrication of testi-
mony, and thereby present a serious 
impediment to effective law enforce-
ment. Amendment of the records would 
interfere with ongoing criminal law en-
forcement proceedings and impose an 
impossible administrative burden by 
requiring criminal investigations to be 
continuously reinvestigated. 
(4)(e)(1). In the course of criminal or 
other law enforcement investigations, 
cases, and matters, the Criminal Divi-
sion will occasionally obtain informa-
tion concerning actual or potential vio-
lations of law that are not strictly 
within its statutory or other authority, 
or it may compile information in the 
course of an investigation which may 
not be relevant to a specific prosecu-
tion. In the interests of effective law 
enforcement, it is necessary to retain 
such information since it can aid in es-
tablishing patterns of criminal activity 
and can provide valuable leads for Fed-
eral and other law enforcement agen-
cies. 
(5)(e)(2). To collect information to 
the greatest extent practicable from 
the subject individual of a criminal in-
vestigation or prosecution would 
present a serious impediment to law 
enforcement. The nature of criminal 
and other investigative activities is 
such that vital information about an 
individual can only be obtained from 
other persons who are familiar with 
such individual and his/her activities. 
In such investigations it is not feasible 
to rely upon information furnished by 
the individual concerning his own ac-
tivities. 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00366 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR357 
Department of Justice § 16.92 
(6) (e)(3). To provide individuals sup-
plying information with a form stating 
the requirements of subsection (e)(3) 
would constitute a serious impediment 
to law enforcement in that it could 
compromise the existence of a con-
fidential investigation or reveal the 
identity of witnesses or confidential in-
formants. 
(7)(e)(4) (G) and (H). These sub-
sections are inapplicable to the extent 
that this system is exempt from the ac-
cess provisions of subsection (d) and 
the rules provisions of subsection (f). 
(8)(e)(4)(I). The categories of sources 
of the records in this system have been 
published in the F
EDERAL REGISTER in 
broad generic terms in the belief that 
this is all that subsection (e)(4)(I) of 
the Act requires. In the event, how-
ever, that this subsection should be in-
terpreted to require more detail as to 
the identity of sources of the records in 
this system, exemption from this pro-
vision is necessary to protect the con-
fidentiality of the sources of criminal 
and other law enforcement informa-
tion. Such exemption is further nec-
essary to protect the privacy and phys-
ical safety of witnesses and informants. 
(9) (e)(5). In the collection of informa-
tion for criminal law enforcement pur-
poses it is impossible to determine in 
advance what information is accurate, 
relevant, timely, and complete. With 
the passage of time, seemingly irrele-
vant or untimely information may ac-
quire new significance as further inves-
tigation brings new details to light and 
the accuracy of such information can 
often only be determined in a court of 
law. The restrictions of subsection 
(e)(5) would inhibit the ability of 
trained investigators, intelligence ana-
lysts, and government attorneys in ex-
ercising their judgment in reporting on 
information and investigations and im-
pede the development of criminal or 
other intelligence necessary for effec-
tive law enforcement. 
(10)(e)(8). The individual notice re-
quirements of subsection (e)(8) could 
present a serious impediment to law 
enforcement as this could interfere 
with the ability to issue warrants or 
subpoenas and could reveal investiga-
tive techniques, procedures, or evi-
dence. 
(11)(f). This subsection is inapplicable 
to the extent that this system is ex-
empt from the access provisions of sub-
section (d). 
(12)(g). Because some of the records 
in this system contain information 
which was compiled for law enforce-
ment purposes and have been exempted 
from the access provisions of sub-
section (d), subsection (g) is inappli-
cable. 
(s) The following system of records is 
exempted from 5 U.S.C. 552a(d). 
Office of Special Investigations Displaced 
Persons Listings (JUSTICE/CRM–027). 
This exemption applies to the extent 
that the records in this system are sub-
ject to exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
552a(k)(2). 
(t) Exemption from subsection (d) is 
justified for the following reasons: 
(1) Access to records contained in 
this system could inform the subject of 
the identity of witnesses or inform-
ants. The release of such information 
could present a serious impediment to 
effective law enforcement by endan-
gering the physical safety of witnesses 
or informants; by leading to the im-
proper influencing of witnesses, the de-
struction of evidence, or the fabrica-
tion of testimony; or by otherwise pre-
venting the successful completion of an 
investigation. 
[Order No. 645–76, 41 FR 12640, Mar. 26, 1976, 
as amended by Order No. 659–76, 41 FR 32423, 
Aug. 3, 1976; Order No. 11–78, 43 FR 38386, 
Aug. 28, 1978; Order No. 30–79, 44 FR 54046, 
Sept. 18, 1979; Order No. 6–86, 7–86, 51 FR 
15475, 15477, Apr. 24, 1986; Order No. 018–2004, 
69 FR 72114, Dec. 13, 2004; Order No. 015–2006, 
71 FR 58278, Oct. 3, 2006; Order No. 003–2009, 74 
FR 42776, Aug. 25, 2009; Order No. 006–2013, 78 
FR 69754, Nov. 21, 2013] 
§ 16.92 Exemption of Environment and 
Natural Resources Division Sys-
tems—limited access. 
(a)(1) The following system of records 
is exempted pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
552a(j)(2) from subsections (c)(3) and 
(4), (d), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(3), (e)(5), (e)(8), 
(f) and (g); in addition, the following 
systems of records are exempted pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1) and (k)(2) 
from subsections (c)(3), (d), and (e)(1): 
(i) Environment and Natural Re-
sources Division Case and Related Files 
System, JUSTICE/ENRD–003. 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00367 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR358 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.92 
(ii) [Reserved] 
(2) These exemptions apply only to 
the extent that information in this sys-
tem relates to the investigation, pros-
ecution or defense of actual or poten-
tial criminal or civil litigation, or 
which has been properly classified in 
the interest of national defense and 
foreign policy, and therefore is subject 
to exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
552a(j)(2), (k)(1) and (k)(2). To the ex-
tent that information in a record per-
taining to an individual does not relate 
to national defense or foreign policy, 
official Federal investigations, and/or 
law enforcement matters, the exemp-
tion does not apply. In addition, where 
compliance would not appear to inter-
fere with or adversely affect the over-
all law or regulatory enforcement proc-
ess, the applicable exemption may be 
waived by the Environment and Nat-
ural Resources Division. 
(b) Only that information that re-
lates to the investigation, prosecution 
or defense of actual or potential crimi-
nal or civil litigation, or which has 
been properly classified in the interest 
of national defense and foreign policy 
is exempted for the reasons set forth 
from the following subsections: 
(1) Subsection (c)(3). Subsection (c)(3) 
requires an agency to provide an ac-
counting of disclosures of records con-
cerning an individual. To provide the 
subject of a criminal or civil matter or 
case under investigation with an ac-
counting of disclosures of records 
would inform that individual (and oth-
ers to whom the subject might disclose 
the records) of the existence, nature, or 
scope of that investigation and thereby 
seriously impede law enforcement ef-
forts by permitting the record subject 
and others to avoid criminal penalties 
and civil remedies. 
(2) Subsections (c)(4) (requiring an 
agency to inform individuals about any 
corrections made to a record that has been 
disclosed) and (g) (providing for civil rem-
edies when an agency fails to comply with 
these provisions). These provisions are 
inapplicable to the extent that this 
system of records is exempted from 
subsection (d). 
(3) Subsection (d). Subsection (d) re-
quires an agency to allow individuals 
to gain access to a record about him or 
herself; to dispute the accuracy, rel-
evance, timeliness or completeness of 
such records; and to have an oppor-
tunity to amend his or her record or 
seek judicial review. To the extent that 
information contained in this system 
has been properly classified, relates to 
the investigation and/or prosecution of 
grand jury, civil fraud, and other law 
enforcement matters, disclosure could 
compromise matters which should be 
kept secret in the interest of national 
security or foreign policy; compromise 
confidential investigations or pro-
ceedings; impede affirmative enforce-
ment actions based upon alleged viola-
tions of regulations or of civil or crimi-
nal laws; reveal the identity of con-
fidential sources; and result in unwar-
ranted invasions of the privacy of oth-
ers. Amendment of the records would 
interfere with ongoing criminal law en-
forcement proceedings and impose an 
impossible administrative burden by 
requiring criminal investigations to be 
continuously reinvestigated. 
(4) Subsection (e)(1). Subsection (e)(1) 
requires an agency to maintain in its 
records only such information about an 
individual that is relevant and nec-
essary to accomplish the agency’s pur-
pose. In the course of criminal or civil 
investigations, cases, or other matters, 
the Environment and Natural Re-
sources Division may obtain informa-
tion concerning the actual or potential 
violation of laws which are not strictly 
within its statutory authority. In the 
interest of effective law enforcement, 
it is necessary to retain such informa-
tion since it may establish patterns of 
criminal activity or avoidance of other 
civil obligations and provide leads for 
Federal and other law enforcement 
agencies. 
(5) Subsection (e)(2). Subsection (e)(2) 
requires an agency to collect informa-
tion to the greatest extent practicable 
from the subject individual when the 
information may result in adverse de-
terminations about an individual’s 
rights, benefits and privileges under 
Federal programs. To collect informa-
tion from the subject of a criminal in-
vestigation or prosecution would 
present a serious impediment to law 
enforcement in that the subject (and 
others with whom the subject might be 
in contact) would be informed of the 
existence of the investigation and 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00368 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR359 
Department of Justice § 16.93 
would therefore be able to avoid detec-
tion or apprehension, to influence wit-
nesses improperly, to destroy evidence, 
or to fabricate testimony. 
(6) Subsection (e)(3). Subsection (e)(3) 
requires an agency to inform each indi-
vidual whom it asks to supply informa-
tion, on a form that can be retained by 
the individual, the authority which au-
thorizes the solicitation, the principal 
purpose for the information, the rou-
tine uses of the information, and the 
effects on the individual of not pro-
viding the requested information. To 
comply with this requirement during 
the course of a criminal investigation 
or prosecution could jeopardize the in-
vestigation by disclosing the existence 
of a confidential investigation, reveal-
ing the identity of witnesses or con-
fidential informants, or impeding the 
information gathering process. 
(7) Subsection (e)(5). Subsection (e)(5) 
requires an agency to maintain records 
with such accuracy, relevance, timeli-
ness, and completeness as is reasonably 
necessary to assure fairness to the in-
dividual. In compiling information for 
criminal law enforcement purposes, the 
accuracy, completeness, timeliness and 
relevancy of the information obtained 
cannot always be immediately deter-
mined. As new details of an investiga-
tion come to light, seemingly irrele-
vant or untimely information may ac-
quire new significance and the accu-
racy of such information can often 
only be determined in a court of law. 
Compliance with this requirement 
would therefore restrict the ability of 
government attorneys in exercising 
their judgment in developing informa-
tion necessary for effective law en-
forcement. 
(8) Subsection (e)(8). Subsection (e)(8) 
requires agencies to make reasonable 
efforts to serve notice on an individual 
when any record on the individual is 
made available to any person under 
compulsory legal process. To serve no-
tice would give persons sufficient warn-
ing to evade law enforcement efforts. 
(9) Subsections (f) and (g). Subsection 
(f) requires an agency to establish pro-
cedures to allow an individual to have 
access to information about him or 
herself and to contest information kept 
by an agency about him or herself. 
Subsection (g) provides for civil rem-
edies against agencies who fail to com-
ply with the Privacy Act requirements. 
These provisions are inapplicable to 
the extent that this system is exempt 
from the access and amendment provi-
sions of subsection (d). 
(c) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a (c)(3) and (d): 
(1) Freedom of Information/Privacy 
Act Records System. (Justice/LDN– 
005). 
These exemptions apply only to the ex-
tent that information in this system is 
subject to exemption pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). 
(d) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c) (3) because 
that portion of the Freedom of Infor-
mation/Privacy Act Records System 
that consists of investigatory mate-
rials compiled for law enforcement pur-
poses is being exempted from access 
and contest; the provision for disclo-
sure of accounting is not applicable. 
(2) From subsection (d) because of the 
need to safeguard the identity of con-
fidential informants and avoid inter-
ference with ongoing investigations or 
law enforcement activities by pre-
venting premature disclosure of infor-
mation relating to those efforts. 
[Order No. 688–77, 42 FR 10000, Feb. 18, 1977, as 
amended by Order No. 207–2000, 65 FR 75158, 
Dec. 1, 2000] 
§ 16.93 Exemption of Tax Division Sys-
tems—limited access. 
(a) The following systems of records 
are exempted pursuant to the provi-
sions of 5 U.S.C. 552a (j)(2) from sub-
sections (c)(3), (c)(4), (d)(1), (d)(2), 
(d)(3), (d)(4), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(3), 
(e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I), (e)(5), (e)(8), 
(f) and (g) of 5 U.S.C. 552a: 
(1) Tax Division Central Classifica-
tion Cards, Index Docket Cards, and 
Associated Records—Criminal Tax 
Cases (JUSTICE/TAX–001)—Limited 
Access. 
(2) These exemptions apply to the ex-
tent that information in these systems 
is subject to exemption pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552a(j)(2). 
(b) The system of records listed under 
paragraph (a)(1) of this section is ex-
empted for the reasons set forth below, 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00369 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR360 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.93 
from the following provisions of 5 
U.S.C. 552a: 
(1)(c)(3). The release of the disclosure 
accounting, for disclosures made pursu-
ant to subsection (b) of the Act, includ-
ing those permitted under the routine 
uses published for those systems of 
records, would enable the subject of an 
investigation of an actual or potential 
criminal tax case to determine whether 
he or she is the subject of investiga-
tion, to obtain valuable information 
concerning the nature of that inves-
tigation and the information obtained, 
and to determine the identity of wit-
nesses or informants. Such access to 
investigative information would, ac-
cordingly, present a serious impedi-
ment to law enforcement. In addition, 
disclosure of the accounting would con-
stitute notice to the individual of the 
existence of a record even though such 
notice requirement under subsection 
(f)(1) is specifically exempted for these 
systems of records. 
(2)(c)(4). Since an exemption is being 
claimed for subsection (d) of the Act 
(Access to Records) this subsection is 
inapplicable to the extent that these 
systems of records are exempted from 
subsection (d). 
(3) (d)(1); (d)(2); (d)(3); (d)(4). Access 
to the records contained in these sys-
tems would inform the subject of an ac-
tual or potential criminal tax inves-
tigation of the existence of that inves-
tigation, of the nature and scope of the 
information and evidence obtained as 
to his or her activities, and of the iden-
tity of witnesses or informants. Such 
access would, accordingly, provide in-
formation that could enable the sub-
ject to avoid detection, apprehension 
and prosecution. This result, therefore, 
would constitute a serious impediment 
to effective law enforcement not only 
because it would prevent the successful 
completion of the investigation but 
also because it could endanger the 
physical safety of witnesses or inform-
ants, lead to the improper influencing 
of witnesses, the destruction of evi-
dence, or the fabrication of testimony. 
(4)(e)(1). The notices for these sys-
tems of records published in the F
ED-
ERAL REGISTER, set forth the basic 
statutory or related authority for 
maintenance of these systems. How-
ever, in the course of criminal tax and 
related law enforcement investiga-
tions, cases, and matters, the Tax Divi-
sion will occasionally obtain informa-
tion concerning actual or potential vio-
lations of law that may not be tech-
nically within its statutory or other 
authority or may compile information 
in the course of an investigation which 
may not be relevant to a specific pros-
ecution. In the interests of effective 
law enforcement, it is necessary to re-
tain some or all of such information in 
these systems of records since it can 
aid in establishing patterns of criminal 
activity and can provide valuable leads 
for Federal and other law enforcement 
agencies. 
(5)(e)(2). In a criminal tax investiga-
tion or prosecution, the requirement 
that information be collected to the 
greatest extent practicable from the 
subject individual would present a seri-
ous impediment to law enforcement be-
cause the subject of the investigation 
or prosecution would be placed on no-
tice as to the existence of the inves-
tigation and would therefore be able to 
avoid detection or apprehension, influ-
ence witnesses improperly, destroy evi-
dence, or fabricate testimony. 
(6)(e)(3). The requirement that indi-
viduals supplying information be pro-
vided with a form stating the require-
ments of subsection (e)(3) would con-
stitute a serious impediment to law en-
forcement in that it could compromise 
the existence of a confidential inves-
tigation or reveal the identity of wit-
nesses or confidential informants. 
(7)(e)(4) (G) and (H). Since an exemp-
tion is being claimed for subsections (f) 
(Agency Rules) and (d) (Access to 
Records) of the Act these subsections 
are inapplicable to the extent that 
these systems of records are exempted 
from subsection (f) and (d). 
(8)(e)(4)(I). The categories of sources 
of the records in the systems have been 
published in the F
EDERAL REGISTER in 
broad generic terms in the belief that 
this is all that subsection (e)(4)(I) of 
the Act requires. In the event, how-
ever, that this subsection should be in-
terpreted to require more detail as to 
the identity of sources of the records in 
these systems, exemption from this 
provision is necessary in order to pro-
tect the confidentiality of the sources 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00370 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR361 
Department of Justice § 16.93 
of criminal tax and related law en-
forcement information. Such exemp-
tion is further necessary to protect the 
privacy and physical safety of wit-
nesses and informants. 
(9)(e)(5). In the collection of informa-
tion for criminal tax enforcement pur-
poses it is impossible to determine in 
advance what information is accurate, 
relevant, timely, and complete. With 
the passage of time, seemingly irrele-
vant or untimely information may ac-
quire new significance as further inves-
tigation brings new details to light. 
Furthermore, the accuracy of such in-
formation can often only be deter-
mined in a court of law. The restric-
tions of subsection (e)(5) would restrict 
the ability of government attorneys in 
exercising their judgment in reporting 
on information and investigations and 
impede the development of criminal 
tax information and related data nec-
essary for effective law enforcement. 
(10)(e)(8). The individual notice re-
quirements of subsection (e)(8) could 
present a serious impediment to law 
enforcement as this could interfere 
with the ability to issue warrants or 
subpoenas and could reveal investiga-
tive techniques, procedures, or evi-
dence. 
(11)(f). Procedures for notice to an in-
dividual pursuant to subsection (f)(1) as 
to the existence of records pertaining 
to him dealing with an actual or poten-
tial criminal tax, civil tax, or regu-
latory investigation or prosecution 
must be exempted because such notice 
to an individual would be detrimental 
to the successful conduct and/or com-
pletion or an investigation or prosecu-
tion pending or future. In addition, 
mere notice of the fact of an investiga-
tion could inform the subject or others 
that their activities are under or may 
become the subject of an investigation 
and could enable the subjects to avoid 
detection or apprehension, to influence 
witnesses improperly, to destroy evi-
dence, or to fabricate testimony. 
Since an exemption is being claimed 
for subsection (d) of the Act (Access to 
Records) the rules required pursuant to 
subsection (f) (2) through (5) are inap-
plicable to these systems of records to 
the extent that these systems of 
records are exempted from subsection 
(d). 
(12)(g). Since an exemption is being 
claimed for subsections (d) (Access to 
Records) and (f) (Agency Rules) this 
section is inapplicable, and is exempted 
for the reasons set forth for those sub-
sections, to the extent that these sys-
tems of records are exempted from sub-
sections (d) and (f). 
(c) The following system of records is 
exempted pursuant to the provisions of 
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) from subsections 
(c)(3), (d)(1), (d)(2), (d)(3), (d)(4), (e)(1), 
(e)(4)(G, (e)(4)(H, (e)(4)(I) and (f) of 5 
U.S.C. 552a: 
(1) Tax Division Central Classifica-
tion Cards, Index Docket Cards, and 
Associated Records—Civil Tax Cases 
(JUSTICE/TAX–002)—Limited Access. 
These exemptions apply to the extent 
that information in this system is sub-
ject to exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
552a(k)(2). 
(d) The system of records listed under 
paragraph (c)(1) is exempted for the 
reasons set forth below, from the fol-
lowing provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a: 
(1)(c)(3). The release of the disclosure 
accounting, for disclosures made pursu-
ant to subsection (b) of the Act, includ-
ing those permitted under the routine 
uses published for this system of 
records, would enable the subject of an 
investigation of an actual or potential 
civil tax case to determine whether he 
or she is the subject of investigation, 
to obtain valuable information con-
cerning the nature of that investiga-
tion and the information obtained, and 
to determine the identity of witnesses 
or informants. Such access to inves-
tigative information would, accord-
ingly, present a serious impediment to 
law enforcement. In addition, disclo-
sure of the accounting would con-
stitute notice to the individual of the 
existence of a record even though such 
notice requirement under subsection 
(f)(1) is specifically exempted for this 
system of records. 
(2) (d)(1); (d)(2); (d)(3); (d)(4). Access 
to the records contained in this system 
would inform the subject of an actual 
or potential civil tax investigation of 
the existence of that investigation, of 
the nature and scope of the informa-
tion and evidence obtained as to his or 
her activities and of the identity of 
witnesses or informants. Such access 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00371 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR362 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.93 
would, accordingly, provide informa-
tion that could enable the subject to 
avoid detection. This result, therefore, 
would constitute a serious impediment 
to effective law enforcement not only 
because it would prevent the successful 
completion of the investigation but 
also because it could endanger the 
physical safety of witnesses or inform-
ants, lead to the improper influencing 
of witnesses, the destruction of evi-
dence, or the fabrication of testimony. 
(3)(e)(1). The notices for this system 
of records published in the F
EDERAL 
REGISTER set forth the basic statutory 
or related authority for maintenance of 
this system. However, in the course of 
civil tax and related law enforcement 
investigations, cases and matters, the 
Tax Division will occasionally obtain 
information concerning actual or po-
tential violations of law that are not 
strictly or technically within its statu-
tory or other authority or may compile 
information in the course of an inves-
tigation which may not be relevant to 
a specific case. In the interests of effec-
tive law enforcement, it is necessary to 
retain some or all of such information 
in this system of records since it can 
aid in establishing patterns of tax com-
pliance and can provide valuable leads 
for Federal and other law enforcement 
agencies. 
(4)(e)(4) (G) and (H). Since an exemp-
tion is being claimed for subsections (f) 
(Agency Rules) and (d) (Access to 
Records) of the Act these subsections 
are inapplicable to the extent that this 
system of records is exempted from 
subsection (f) and (d). 
(5)(e)(4)(I). The categories of sources 
of the records in this system have been 
published in the F
EDERAL REGISTER in 
broad generic terms in the belief that 
this is all that subsection (e)(4)(I) of 
the Act requires. In the event, how-
ever, that this subsection should be in-
terpreted to require more detail as to 
the identity of sources of the records in 
this system, exemption from this pro-
vision is necessary in order to protect 
the confidentiality of the sources of 
civil tax and related law enforcement 
information. Such exemption is further 
necessary to protect the privacy and 
physical safety of witnesses and in-
formants. 
(6)(f). Procedures for notice to an in-
dividual pursuant to subsection (f)(1) as 
to existence of records pertaining to 
the individual dealing with an actual 
or potential criminal tax, civil tax, or 
regulatory investigation or prosecution 
must be exempted because such notice 
to an individual would be detrimental 
to the successful conduct and/or com-
pletion of an investigation or case, 
pending or future. In addition, mere 
notice of the fact of an investigation 
could inform the subject or others that 
their activities are under or may be-
come the subject of an investigation 
and could enable the subjects to avoid 
detection, to influence witnesses im-
properly, to destroy evidence, or to fab-
ricate testimony. 
Since an exemption is being claimed 
for subsection (d) of the Act (Access to 
Records) the rules required pursuant to 
subsection (f) (2) through (5) are inap-
plicable to this system of records to 
the extent that this system of records 
is exempted from subsection (d). 
(e) The following system of records is 
exempt from subsections (c)(3) and 
(d)(1) of the Privacy Act pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552a(k)(5): Files of Applicants 
for Attorney and Non-Attorney Posi-
tions with the Tax Division, Justice/ 
TAX–003. These exemptions apply only 
to the extent that information in a 
record is subject to exemption pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5). 
(f) Exemption from the particular 
subsections is justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because an 
accounting could reveal the identity of 
confidential sources and result in an 
unwarranted invasion of the privacy of 
others. Many persons are contacted 
who, without an assurance of anonym-
ity, refuse to provide information con-
cerning an applicant for a position 
with the Tax Division. Disclosure of an 
accounting could reveal the identity of 
a source of information and constitutes 
a breach of the promise of confiden-
tiality by the Tax Division. This would 
result in the reduction in the free flow 
of information vital to a determination 
of an applicant’s qualifications and 
suitability for federal employment. 
(2) From subsection (d)(1) because 
disclosure of records in the system 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00372 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR363 
Department of Justice § 16.96 
could reveal the identity of confiden-
tial sources and result in an unwar-
ranted invasion of the privacy of oth-
ers. Many persons are contacted who, 
without an assurance of anonymity, 
refuse to provide information con-
cerning an applicant for a Tax Division 
position. Access could reveal the iden-
tity of the source of the information 
and constitute a breach of the promise 
of confidentiality on the part of the 
Tax Division. Such breaches ultimately 
would restrict the free flow of informa-
tion vital to a determination of an ap-
plicant’s qualifications and suitability. 
[Order No. 742–77, 42 FR 40906, Aug. 12, 1977, 
as amended by Order No. 6–86, 51 FR 15478, 
Apr. 24, 1986; Order No. 003–2006, 71 FR 11309, 
Mar. 7, 2006] 
§ 16.96 Exemption of Federal Bureau 
of Investigation Systems—limited 
access. 
(a) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), 
(e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(3), (e)(4)(G) and (H), 
(e)(5), (e)(8), (f) and (g): 
(1) Central Records System (CRS) 
(JUSTICE/FBI-002). 
These exemptions apply only to the ex-
tent that information in this system is 
subject to exemption pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552(j) and (k). Where compliance 
would not appear to interfere with or 
adversely affect the overall law en-
forcement process, the applicable ex-
emption may be waived by the FBI. 
(b) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because 
making available to a record subject 
the accounting of disclosures from 
records concerning him/her would re-
veal investigative interest by not only 
the FBI, but also by the recipient agen-
cy. This would permit the record sub-
ject to take appropriate measures to 
impede the investigation, e.g., destroy 
evidence, intimidate potential wit-
nesses or flee the area to avoid the 
thrust of the investigation. 
(2)(i) From subsections (d), (e)(4) (G) 
and (H), (f) and (g) because these provi-
sions concern individual access to in-
vestigative records, compliance with 
which could compromise sensitive in-
formation classified in the interest of 
national security, interfere with the 
overall law enforcement process by re-
vealing a pending sensitive investiga-
tion, possibly identify a confidential 
source or disclose information which 
would constitute an unwarranted inva-
sion of another individual’s personal 
privacy, reveal a sensitive investiga-
tive technique, or constitute a poten-
tial danger to the health or safety to 
law enforcement personnel. 
(ii) Also, individual access to non- 
criminal investigative records, e.g., 
civil investigations and administrative 
inquiries, as described in subsection (k) 
of the Privacy Act, could also com-
promise classified information related 
to national security, interfere with a 
pending investigation or internal in-
quiry, constitute an unwarranted inva-
sion of privacy, reveal a confidential 
source or sensitive investigative tech-
nique, or pose a potential threat to law 
enforcement personnel. In addition, 
disclosure of information collected pur-
suant to an employment suitability or 
similar inquiry could reveal the iden-
tity of a source who provided informa-
tion under an express promise of con-
fidentiality, or could compromise the 
objectivity or fairness of a testing or 
examination process. 
(iii) In addition, from paragraph 
(d)(2) of this section, because to require 
the FBI to amend information thought 
to be incorrect, irrelevant or untimely, 
because of the nature of the informa-
tion collected and the essential length 
of time it is maintained, would create 
an impossible administrative and in-
vestigative burden by forcing the agen-
cy to continuously retrograde its in-
vestigations attempting to resolve 
questions of accuracy, etc. 
(3) From subsection (e)(1) because: 
(i) It is not possible in all instances 
to determine relevancy or necessity of 
specific information in the early stages 
of a criminal or other investigation. 
(ii) Relevance and necessity are ques-
tions of judgment and timing; what ap-
pears relevant and necessary when col-
lected ultimately may be deemed un-
necessary. It is only after the informa-
tion is assessed that its relevancy and 
necessity in a specific investigative ac-
tivity can be established. 
(iii) In any investigation the FBI 
might obtain information concerning 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00373 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR364 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.96 
violations of law not under its jurisdic-
tion, but in the interest of effective law 
enforcement, dissemination will be 
made to the agency charged with en-
forcing such law. 
(iv) In interviewing individuals or ob-
taining other forms of evidence during 
an investigation, information could be 
obtained, the nature of which would 
leave in doubt its relevancy and neces-
sity. Such information, however, could 
be relevant to another investigation or 
to an investigative activity under the 
jurisdiction of another agency. 
(4) From subsection (e)(2) because the 
nature of criminal and other investiga-
tive activities is such that vital infor-
mation about an individual can only be 
obtained from other persons who are 
familiar with such individual and his/ 
her activities. In such investigations it 
is not feasible to rely upon information 
furnished by the individual concerning 
his own activities. 
(5) From subsection (e)(3) because 
disclosure would provide the subject 
with substantial information which 
could impede or compromise the inves-
tigation. The individual could seriously 
interfere with undercover investigative 
activities and could take appropriate 
steps to evade the investigation or flee 
a specific area. 
(6) From subsection (e)(5) because in 
the collection of information for law 
enforcement purposes it is impossible 
to determine in advance what informa-
tion is accurate, relevant, timely and 
complete. With the passage of time, 
seemingly irrelevant or untimely infor-
mation may acquire new significance 
as further investigation brings new de-
tails to light. The restrictions imposed 
by subsection (e)(5) would limit the 
ability of trained investigators and in-
telligence analysts to exercise their 
judgment in reporting on investiga-
tions and impede the development of 
criminal intelligence necessary for ef-
fective law enforcement. In addition, 
because many of these records come 
from other federal, state, local, joint, 
foreign, tribal, and international agen-
cies, it is administratively impossible 
to ensure compliance with this provi-
sion. 
(7) From subsection (e)(8) because the 
notice requirements of this provision 
could seriously interfere with a law en-
forcement activity by alerting the sub-
ject of a criminal or other investiga-
tion of existing investigative interest. 
(c) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c) (3) and (4), 
(d), (e) (1), (2) and (3), (e)(4) (G) and (H), 
(e) (5) and (8), (f), (g) and (m): 
(1) Electronic Surveillance (Elsur) In-
dices (JUSTICE/FBI-006). 
These exemptions apply only to the ex-
tent that information in the system is 
subject to exemption pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552a(j). 
(d) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because the 
release of accounting disclosures would 
place the subject of an investigation on 
notice that he is under investigation 
and provide him with significant infor-
mation concerning the nature of the 
investigation, resulting in a serious 
impediment to law enforcement. 
(2) From subsections (c)(4), (d), (e)(4) 
(G) and (H), and (g) because these pro-
visions concern an individual’s access 
to records which concern him and such 
access to records in this system would 
compromise ongoing investigations, re-
veal investigatory techniques and con-
fidential informants, and invade the 
privacy of private citizens who provide 
information in connection with a par-
ticular investigation. 
(3) From subsection (e)(1) because 
these indices must be maintained in 
order to provide the information as de-
scribed in the ‘‘routine uses’’ of this 
particular system. 
(4) From subsections (e) (2) and (3) be-
cause compliance is not feasible given 
the subject matter of the indices. 
(5) From subsection (e)(5) because 
this provision is not applicable to the 
indices in view of the ‘‘routine uses’’ of 
the indices. For example, it is impos-
sible to predict when it will be nec-
essary to utilize information in the 
system and, accordingly it is not pos-
sible to determine when the records are 
timely. 
(6) From subsection (e)(8) because the 
notice requirement could present a se-
rious impediment to law enforcement 
by revealing investigative techniques, 
procedures and the existence of con-
fidential investigations. 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00374 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR365 
Department of Justice § 16.96 
(7) From subsection (m) for the rea-
sons stated in subsection (b)(7) of this 
section. 
(e) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (4); 
(d)(1), (2), (3) and (4); (e)(1), (2) and (3); 
(e)(4)(G), (H) and (I); (e)(5) and (8); (f) 
and (g): 
(1) The Next Generation Identifica-
tion (NGI) System (JUSTICE/FBI–009). 
(2) These exemptions apply only to 
the extent that information in this sys-
tem is subject to exemption pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) or (k). Where compli-
ance would not appear to interfere with 
or adversely affect the purpose of this 
system to detect, deter, and prosecute 
crimes and to protect the national se-
curity, the applicable exemption may 
be waived by the FBI in its sole discre-
tion. 
(f) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3), the re-
quirement that an accounting be made 
available to the named subject of a 
record, because this system is exempt 
from the access provisions of sub-
section (d). Also, because making 
available to a record subject the ac-
counting of disclosures from records 
concerning the subject would specifi-
cally reveal investigative interest by 
the FBI or agencies that are recipients 
of the disclosures. Revealing this infor-
mation could compromise ongoing, au-
thorized law enforcement and national 
security efforts and may provide the 
record subject with the opportunity to 
evade or impede the investigation. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) notifica-
tion requirements because this system 
is exempt from the access and amend-
ment provisions of subsection (d) as 
well as the accounting of disclosures 
provision of subsection (c)(3). The FBI 
takes seriously its obligation to main-
tain accurate records despite its asser-
tion of this exemption, and to the ex-
tent it, in its sole discretion, agrees to 
permit amendment or correction of 
FBI records, it will share that informa-
tion in appropriate cases. 
(3) From subsection (d) (1), (2), (3) and 
(4), (e)(4)(G) and (H), (e)(8), (f) and (g) 
because these provisions concern indi-
vidual access to and amendment of law 
enforcement records and compliance 
and could alert the subject of an au-
thorized law enforcement activity 
about that particular activity and the 
interest of the FBI and/or other law en-
forcement agencies. Providing access 
could compromise sensitive law en-
forcement information, disclose infor-
mation that would constitute an un-
warranted invasion of another’s per-
sonal privacy, reveal a sensitive inves-
tigative technique, provide informa-
tion that would allow a subject to 
avoid detection or apprehension, or 
constitute a potential danger to the 
health or safety of law enforcement 
personnel, confidential sources, or wit-
nesses. Also, an alternate system of ac-
cess has been provided in 28 CFR 16.30 
through 16.34, and 28 CFR 20.34, for 
record subjects to obtain a copy of 
their criminal history records. How-
ever, the vast majority of criminal his-
tory records concern local arrests for 
which it would be inappropriate for the 
FBI to undertake correction or amend-
ment. 
(4) From subsection (e)(1) because it 
is not always possible to know in ad-
vance what information is relevant and 
necessary for law enforcement pur-
poses. The relevance and utility of cer-
tain information may not always be 
evident until and unless it is vetted 
and matched with other sources of in-
formation that are necessarily and law-
fully maintained by the FBI. Most 
records in this system are acquired 
from state and local law enforcement 
agencies and it is not possible for the 
FBI to review that information as rel-
evant and necessary. 
(5) From subsection (e)(2) and (3) be-
cause application of this provision 
could present a serious impediment to 
the FBI’s responsibilities to detect, 
deter, and prosecute crimes and to pro-
tect the national security. Application 
of these provisions would put the sub-
ject of an investigation on notice of 
that fact and allow the subject an op-
portunity to engage in conduct in-
tended to impede that activity or avoid 
apprehension. Also, the majority of 
criminal history records and associated 
biometrics in this system are collected 
by state and local agencies at the time 
of arrest; therefore it is not feasible for 
the FBI to collect directly from the in-
dividual or to provide notice. Those 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00375 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR366 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.96 
persons who voluntarily submit finger-
prints into this system pursuant to 
state and federal statutes for licensing, 
employment, and similar civil purposes 
receive an (e)(3) notice. 
(6) From subsection (e)(4)(I), to the 
extent that this subsection is inter-
preted to require more detail regarding 
the record sources in this system than 
has been published in the F
EDERAL 
REGISTER. Should the subsection be so 
interpreted, exemption from this provi-
sion is necessary to protect the sources 
of law enforcement information and to 
protect the privacy and safety of wit-
nesses and informants and others who 
provide information to the FBI. 
(7) From subsection (e)(5) because in 
the collection of information for au-
thorized law enforcement purposes it is 
impossible to determine in advance 
what information is accurate, relevant, 
timely and complete. With time, seem-
ingly irrelevant or untimely informa-
tion may acquire new significance 
when new details are brought to light. 
Additionally, the information may aid 
in establishing patterns of activity and 
providing criminal leads. Most records 
in this system are acquired from state 
and local law enforcement agencies and 
it would be impossible for the FBI to 
vouch for the compliance of these 
agencies with this provision. The FBI 
does communicate to these agencies 
the need for accurate and timely crimi-
nal history records, including criminal 
dispositions. 
(g) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (4), 
(d), (e)(l), (e)(2), (e)(3), (e)(4)(G), (H), 
and (I), (e)(5), (e)(8), (f), and (g): 
(1) National Crime Information Cen-
ter (NCIC) (JUSTICE/FBI–001). 
(2) These exemptions apply only to 
the extent that information in the sys-
tem is subject to exemption pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 552aG) and (k). Where the 
FBI determines compliance with an ex-
empted provision would not appear to 
interfere with or adversely affect inter-
ests of the United States or other sys-
tem stakeholders, the FBI in its sole 
discretion may waive an exemption, in 
whole or in part; exercise of this discre-
tionary waiver prerogative in a par-
ticular matter shall not create any en-
titlement to or expectation of waiver 
in that matter or any other matter. As 
a condition of discretionary waiver, the 
FBI in its sole discretion may impose 
any restrictions deemed advisable by 
the FBI (including, but not limited to, 
restrictions on the location, manner, 
or scope of notice, access or amend-
ment). 
(h) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) the re-
quirement that an accounting be made 
available to the named subject of a 
record, because this system is exempt 
from the access provisions of sub-
section (d). Also, because making 
available to a record subject the ac-
counting of disclosures from records 
concerning him/her would specifically 
reveal law enforcement or national se-
curity investigative interest in the in-
dividual by the FBI or agencies that 
are recipients of the disclosures. Re-
vealing this information could com-
promise ongoing, authorized law en-
forcement and intelligence efforts, par-
ticularly efforts to identify and defuse 
any potential acts of terrorism or 
other potential violations of criminal 
law. Revealing this information could 
also permit the record subject to ob-
tain valuable insight concerning the 
information obtained during any inves-
tigation and to take measures to cir-
cumvent the investigation ( e.g., de-
stroy evidence or flee the area to avoid 
investigation). 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) notifica-
tion requirements because this system 
is exempt from the access and amend-
ment provisions of subsection (d) as 
well as the accounting disclosures pro-
vision of subsection (c)(3). The FBI 
takes seriously its obligation to main-
tain accurate records despite its asser-
tion of this exemption, and to the ex-
tent it, in its sole discretion, agrees to 
permit amendment or correction of 
FBI records, it will share that informa-
tion in appropriate cases. 
(3) From subsection (d), (e)(4)(G) and 
(H), (e)(8), (f), and (g) because these 
provisions concern individual access to 
and amendment of law enforcement 
and intelligence records and compli-
ance could alert the subject of an au-
thorized law enforcement or intel-
ligence activity about that particular 
activity and the investigative interest 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00376 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR367 
Department of Justice § 16.96 
of the FBI and/or other law enforce-
ment or intelligence agencies. Pro-
viding access could compromise sen-
sitive law enforcement information; 
disclose information that could con-
stitute an unwarranted invasion of an-
other’s personal privacy; reveal a sen-
sitive investigative or intelligence 
technique; provide information that 
would allow a subject to avoid detec-
tion or apprehension; or constitute a 
potential danger to the health or safe-
ty of law enforcement personnel, con-
fidential sources, and witnesses. The 
FBI takes seriously its obligation to 
maintain accurate records despite its 
assertion of this exemption, and to the 
extent it, in its sole discretion, agrees 
to permit amendment or correction of 
FBI records, it will share that informa-
tion in appropriate cases with subjects 
of the information. 
(4) From subsection (e)(l) because it 
is not always possible to know in ad-
vance what information is relevant and 
necessary for law enforcement and in-
telligence purposes. Relevance and ne-
cessity are questions of judgment and 
timing. For example, what appears 
rekvant and necessary when collected 
ultimately may be deemed unneces-
sary. It is only after information is as-
sessed that its relevancy and necessity 
in a specific investigative activity can 
be established. 
(5) From subsections (e)(2) and (3) be-
cause it is not feasible to comply with 
these provisions given the nature of 
this system. The majority of the 
records in this system come from other 
federal, state, local, joint, foreign, trib-
al, and international agencies; there-
fore, it is not feasible for the FBI to 
collect information directly from the 
individual or to provide notice. Addi-
tionally, the application of this provi-
sion could present a serious impedi-
ment to the FBI’s responsibilities to 
detect, deter, and prosecute crimes and 
to protect the national security. Appli-
cation of these provisions would put 
the subject of an investigation on no-
tice of that fact and allow the subject 
an opportunity to engage in conduct 
intended to impede that activity or 
avoid apprehension. 
(6) From subsection (e)(4)(I), to the 
extent that this subsection is inter-
preted to require more detail regarding 
the record sources in this system than 
has already been published in the F
ED-
ERAL REGISTER through the SORN doc-
umentation. Should the subsection be 
so interpreted, exemption from this 
provision is necessary to protect the 
sources of law enforcement and intel-
ligence information and to protect the 
privacy and safety of witnesses and in-
formants and others who provide infor-
mation to the FBI. 
(7) From subsection (e)(S) because in 
the collection of information for au-
thorized law enforcement and intel-
ligence purposes it is impossible to de-
termine in advance what information 
is accurate, relevant, timely, and com-
plete. With time, additional facts, or 
analysis, information may acquire new 
significance. The restrictions imposed 
by subsection (e)(S) would limit the 
ability of trained investigators and in-
telligence analysts to exercise their 
judgment in reporting on investiga-
tions and impede the development of 
criminal intelligence necessary for ef-
fective law enforcement. Although the 
FBI has claimed this exemption, it con-
tinuously works with its federal, state, 
local, tribal, and international part-
ners to maintain the accuracy of 
records to the greatest extent prac-
ticable. The FBI does so with estab-
lished policies and practices. The 
criminal justice and national security 
communities have a strong operational 
interest in using up-to-date and accu-
rate records and will foster relation-
ships with partners to further this in-
terest. 
(j) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a (c)(3), (d), 
(e)(1), (e)(4)(G) and (H), (e)(5), (f) and 
(g): 
(1) National Center for the Analysis 
of Violent Crime (NCAVC) (JUSTICE/ 
FBI-015). 
These exemptions apply only to the ex-
tent that information in this system is 
subject to exemption pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552a (j)(2) and (k)(2). 
(k) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because 
providing the accounting of disclosures 
to the subject could prematurely reveal 
investigative interest by the FBI and 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00377 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR368 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.96 
other law enforcement agencies, there-
by providing the individual an oppor-
tunity to impede an active investiga-
tion, destroy or alter evidence, and 
possibly render harm to violent crime 
victims and/or witnesses. 
(2) From subsections (d), (e)(4) (G) 
and (H), and (f) because disclosure to 
the subject could interfere with en-
forcement proceedings of a criminal 
justice agency, reveal the identity of a 
confidential source, result in an unwar-
ranted invasion of another’s privacy, 
reveal the details of a sensitive inves-
tigative technique, or endanger the life 
and safety of law enforcement per-
sonnel, potential violent crime vic-
tims, and witnesses. Disclosure also 
could prevent the future apprehension 
of a violent or exceptionally dangerous 
criminal fugitive should he or she mod-
ify his or her method of operation in 
order to evade law enforcement. Also, 
specifically from subsection (d)(2), 
which permits an individual to request 
amendment of a record, because the na-
ture of the information in the system 
is such that an individual criminal of-
fender would frequently demand 
amendment of derogatory information, 
forcing the FBI to continuously retro-
grade its criminal investigations in an 
attempt to resolve questions of accu-
racy, etc. 
(3) From subsection (g) because the 
system is exempt from the access and 
amendment provisions of subsection 
(d). 
(4) From subsection (e)(1) because it 
is not always possible to establish rel-
evance and necessity of the informa-
tion at the time it is obtained or devel-
oped. Information, the relevance and 
necessity of which may not be readily 
apparent, frequently can prove to be of 
investigative value at a later date and 
time. 
(5) From subsection (e)(5) because in 
the collection of information for law 
enforcement purposes it is impossible 
to determine in advance what informa-
tion is accurate, relevant, timely and 
complete. With the passage of time, 
seemingly irrelevant or untimely infor-
mation may acquire new significance 
as further investigation brings new de-
tails to light. The restrictions imposed 
by subsection (e)(5) would limit the 
ability of trained investigators and in-
telligence analysts to exercise their 
judgment in reporting on investiga-
tions and impede the development of 
criminal intelligence necessary for ef-
fective law enforcement. In addition, 
because many of these records come 
from other federal, state, local, joint, 
foreign, tribal, and international agen-
cies, it is administratively impossible 
to ensure compliance with this provi-
sion. 
(l) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a (c)(3), (c)(4), 
(d), (e) (1), (2), and (3), (e)(4) (G) and (H), 
(e)(5), (e)(8), (f) and (g). 
(1) FBI Counterdrug Information In-
dices System (CIIS) (JUSTICE/FBI— 
016) 
(2) [Reserved] 
(m) These exemptions apply only to 
the extent that information in this sys-
tem is subject to exemption pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 552a (j)(2). Exemptions from 
the particular subsections are justified 
for the following reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because 
making available to a record subject 
the accounting of disclosures from 
records concerning him/her would re-
veal investigative interest by not only 
the FBI, but also by the recipient agen-
cy. This would permit the record sub-
ject to take appropriate measures to 
impede the investigation, e.g., destroy 
evidence, intimidate potential wit-
nesses or flee the area to avoid the 
thrust of the investigation. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) to the ex-
tent it is not applicable because an ex-
emption is being claimed from sub-
section (d). 
(3)(i) From subsections (d), (e)(4) (G) 
and (H) because these provisions con-
cern individual access to records, com-
pliance with which could compromise 
sensitive information, interfere with 
the overall law enforcement process by 
revealing a pending sensitive investiga-
tion, possibly identify a confidential 
source or disclose information which 
would constitute an unwarranted inva-
sion of another individual’s personal 
privacy, reveal a sensitive investiga-
tive technique, or constitute a poten-
tial danger to the health or safety of 
law enforcement personnel. 
(ii) In addition, from paragraph (d), 
because to require the FBI to amend 
information thought to be incorrect, 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00378 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR369 
Department of Justice § 16.96 
irrelevant or untimely, because of the 
nature of the information collected and 
the essential length of time it is main-
tained, would create an impossible ad-
ministrative and investigative burden 
by forcing the agency to continuously 
retrograde its investigations attempt-
ing to resolve questions of accuracy, 
etc. 
(4)(i) From subsection (e)(1) because 
it is not possible in all instances to de-
termine relevancy or necessity of spe-
cific information in the early stages of 
a criminal or other investigation. 
(ii) Relevance and necessity are ques-
tions of judgment and timing; what ap-
pears relevant and necessary when col-
lected ultimately may be deemed oth-
erwise. It is only after the information 
is assessed that its relevancy and ne-
cessity in a specified investigative ac-
tivity can be established. 
(iii) In any investigation the FBI 
might obtain information concerning 
violations of law not under its jurisdic-
tion, but in the interest of effective law 
enforcement, dissemination will be 
made to the agency charged with en-
forcing such law. 
(iv) In interviewing individuals or ob-
taining other forms of evidence during 
an investigation, information could be 
obtained, the nature of which would 
leave in doubt its relevancy and neces-
sity. Such information, however, could 
be relevant to another investigations 
or to an investigative activity under 
the jurisdiction of another agency. 
(5) From subsection (e)(2) because the 
nature of criminal and other investiga-
tive activities is such that vital infor-
mation about an individual often can 
only be obtained from other persons 
who are familiar with such individual 
and his/her activities. In such inves-
tigations it is not feasible to prin-
cipally rely upon information furnished 
by the individual concerning his own 
activities. 
(6) From subsection (e)(3) because 
disclosure would provide the subject 
with information which could impede 
or compromise the investigation. The 
individual could seriously interfere 
with undercover investigative activi-
ties and could take appropriate steps 
to evade the investigation or flee a spe-
cific area. 
(7) From subsection (e)(5) because in 
the collection of information for law 
enforcement purposes it is impossible 
to determine in advance what informa-
tion is accurate, relevant, timely and 
complete. With the passage of time, 
seemingly irrelevant or untimely infor-
mation may acquire new significance 
as further investigation brings new de-
tails to light. The restrictions imposed 
by subsection (e)(5) would restrict the 
ability of trained investigators and in-
telligence analysts to exercise their 
judgment in reporting on investiga-
tions and impede the development of 
criminal intelligence necessary for ef-
fective law enforcement. 
(8) From subsection (e)(8) because the 
notice requirements of this provision 
could seriously interfere with a law en-
forcement activity by alerting the sub-
ject of a criminal or other investiga-
tion of existing investigative interest. 
(9) From subsection (f) to the extent 
that this system is exempt from the 
provisions of subsection (d). 
(10) From subsection (g) to the extent 
that this system of records is exempt 
from the provisions of subsection (d). 
(n) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a (c) (3) and 
(4); (d); (e) (1), (2), and 3; (e)(4) (G) and 
(H); (e) (5) and (8); and (g): 
(1) National DNA Index System 
(NDIS) (JUSTICE/FBI-017). 
(2) [Reserved] 
(o) These exemptions apply only to 
the extent that information in the sys-
tem is subject to exemption pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2). Exemptions from 
the particular subsections are justified 
for the following reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because 
making available the accounting of 
disclosures of records to the subject of 
the record would prematurely place the 
subject on notice of the investigative 
interest of law enforcement agencies, 
provide the subject with significant in-
formation concerning the nature of the 
investigation, or permit the subject to 
take measures to impede the investiga-
tion (e.g., destroy or alter evidence, in-
timidate potential witnesses, or flee 
the area to avoid investigation and 
prosecution), and result in a serious 
impediment to law enforcement. 
(2)(i) From subsections (c)(4), (d), 
(e)(4) (G) and (H), and (g) because these 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00379 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR370 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.96 
provisions concern an individual’s ac-
cess to records which concern him/her 
and access to records in this system 
would compromise ongoing investiga-
tions. Such access is directed at allow-
ing the subject of the record to correct 
inaccuracies in it. The vast majority of 
records in this system are from the 
DNA records of local and State NDIS 
agencies which would be inappropriate 
and not feasible for the FBI to under-
take to correct. Nevertheless, an alter-
nate method to access and/or amend 
records in this system is available to 
an individual who is the subject of a 
record pursuant to procedures and re-
quirements specified in the Notice of 
Systems of Records compiled by the 
National Archives and Records Admin-
istration and published in the F
EDERAL 
REGISTER under the designation: Na-
tional DNA Index System (NDIS) (JUS-
TICE/FBI-017) 
(ii) In addition, from paragraph (d)(2) 
of this section, because to require the 
FBI to amend information thought to 
be incorrect, irrelevant, or untimely, 
because of the nature of the informa-
tion collected and the essential length 
of time it is maintained, would create 
an impossible administrative and in-
vestigative burden by forcing the agen-
cy to continuously retrograde inves-
tigations attempting to resolve ques-
tions of accuracy, etc. 
(iii) In addition, from subsection (g) 
to the extent that the system is ex-
empt from the access and amendment 
provisions of subsection (d). 
(3) From subsection (e)(1) because: 
(i) Information in this system is pri-
marily from State and local records 
and it is for the official use of agencies 
outside the Federal Government. 
(ii) It is not possible in all instances 
to determine the relevancy or neces-
sity of specific information in the early 
stages of the criminal investigative 
process. 
(iii) Relevance and necessity are 
questions of judgment and timing; 
what appears relevant and necessary 
when collected ultimately may be 
deemed unnecessary, and vice versa. It 
is only after the information is as-
sessed that its relevancy in a specific 
investigative activity can be estab-
lished. 
(iv) Although the investigative proc-
ess could leave in doubt the relevancy 
and necessity of evidence which had 
been properly obtained, the same infor-
mation could be relevant to another in-
vestigation or investigative activity 
under the jurisdiction of the FBI or an-
other law enforcement agency. 
(4) From subsections (e)(2) and (3) be-
cause it is not feasible to comply with 
these provisions given the nature of 
this system. Most of the records in this 
system are necessarily furnished by 
State and local criminal justice agen-
cies and not by individuals due to the 
very nature of the records and the sys-
tem. 
(5) From subsection (e)(5) because the 
vast majority of these records come 
from State and local criminal justice 
agencies and because it is administra-
tively impossible for them and the FBI 
to insure that the records comply with 
this provision. Submitting agencies are 
urged and make every effort to insure 
records are accurate and complete; 
however, since it is not possible to pre-
dict when information in the indexes of 
the system (whether submitted by 
State and local criminal justice agen-
cies or generated by the FBI) will be 
matched with other information, it is 
not possible to determine when most of 
them are relevant or timely. 
(6) From subsection (e)(8) because the 
FBI has no logical manner to deter-
mine whenever process has been made 
public and compliance with this provi-
sion would provide an impediment to 
law enforcement by interfering with 
ongoing investigations. 
(p) The National Instant Criminal 
Background Check System (NICS), 
(JUSTICE/FBI-018), a Privacy Act sys-
tem of records, is exempt: 
(1) Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), 
from subsections (c) (3) and (4); (d); (e) 
(1), (2) and (3); (e)(4) (G) and (H); (e) (5) 
and (8); and (g); and 
(2) Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k) (2) 
and (3), from subsections (c)(3), (d), 
(e)(1), and (e)(4) (G) and (H). 
(q) These exemptions apply only to 
the extent that information in the sys-
tem is subject to exemption pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), (k)(2), and (k)(3). 
Exemptions from the particular sub-
sections are justified for the following 
reasons: 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00380 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR371 
Department of Justice § 16.96 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because the 
release of the accounting of disclosures 
would place the subject on notice that 
the subject is or has been the subject of 
investigation and result in a serious 
impediment to law enforcement. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) to the ex-
tent that it is not applicable since an 
exemption is claimed from subsection 
(d). 
(3)(i) From subsections (d) and (e)(4) 
(G) and (H) because these provisions 
concern an individual’s access to 
records which concern the individual 
and such access to records in the sys-
tem would compromise ongoing inves-
tigations, reveal investigatory tech-
niques and confidential informants, in-
vade the privacy of persons who pro-
vide information in connection with a 
particular investigation, or constitute 
a potential danger to the health or 
safety of law enforcement personnel. 
(ii) In addition, from subsection (d)(2) 
because, to require the FBI to amend 
information thought to be not accu-
rate, timely, relevant, and complete, 
because of the nature of the informa-
tion collected and the essential length 
of time it is maintained, would create 
an impossible administrative burden by 
forcing the agency to continuously up-
date its investigations attempting to 
resolve these issues. 
(iii) Although the Attorney General 
is exempting this system from sub-
sections (d) and (e)(4) (G) and (H), an 
alternate method of access and correc-
tion has been provided in 28 CFR, part 
25, subpart A. 
(4) From subsection (e)(1) because it 
is impossible to state with any degree 
of certainty that all information in 
these records is relevant to accomplish 
a purpose of the FBI, even though ac-
quisition of the records from state and 
local law enforcement agencies is based 
on a statutory requirement. In view of 
the number of records in the system, it 
is impossible to review them for rel-
evancy. 
(5) From subsections (e) (2) and (3) be-
cause the purpose of the system is to 
verify information about an individual. 
It would not be realistic to rely on in-
formation provided by the individual. 
In addition, much of the information 
contained in or checked by this system 
is from Federal, State, and local crimi-
nal history records. 
(6) From subsection (e)(5) because it 
is impossible to predict when it will be 
necessary to use the information in the 
system, and, accordingly, it is not pos-
sible to determine in advance when the 
records will be timely. Since most of 
the records are from State and local or 
other Federal agency records, it would 
be impossible to review all of them to 
verify that they are accurate. In addi-
tion, an alternate procedure is being 
established in 28 CFR, part 25, subpart 
A, so the records can be amended if 
found to be incorrect. 
(7) From subsection (e)(8) because the 
notice requirement could present a se-
rious impediment to law enforcement 
by revealing investigative techniques 
and confidential investigations. 
(8) From subsection (g) to the extent 
that, pursuant to subsections (j)(2), 
(k)(2), and (k)(3), the system is exempt-
ed from the other subsections listed in 
paragraph (p) of this section. 
(r) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (4); 
(d)(1), (2), (3), and (4); (e)(1), (2), (3), (5), 
and (8); and (g): 
(1) Terrorist Screening Records Sys-
tem (TSRS) (JUSTICE/FBI–019). 
(2) These exemptions apply only to 
the extent that information in this sys-
tem is subject to exemption pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), (k)(1), and (k)(2). 
Where compliance would not appear to 
interfere with or adversely affect the 
counterterrorism purposes of this sys-
tem, and the overall law enforcement 
process, the applicable exemption may 
be waived by the FBI in its sole discre-
tion. 
(s) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because 
making available to a record subject 
the accounting of disclosures from 
records concerning him/her would spe-
cifically reveal any investigative inter-
est in the individual. Revealing this in-
formation could reasonably be ex-
pected to compromise ongoing efforts 
to investigate a known or suspected 
terrorist by notifying the record sub-
ject that he/she is under investigation. 
This information could also permit the 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00381 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR372 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.96 
record subject to take measures to im-
pede the investigation, e.g., destroy 
evidence, intimidate potential wit-
nesses, or flee the area to avoid or im-
pede the investigation. Similarly, dis-
closing this information to individuals 
who have been misidentified as known 
or suspected terrorists due to a close 
name similarity could reveal the Gov-
ernment’s investigative interest in a 
terrorist suspect, because it could 
make known the name of the indi-
vidual who actually is the subject of 
the Government’s interest. Con-
sequently, the Government has as 
great an interest in protecting the con-
fidentiality of identifying information 
of misidentified persons as it does in 
protecting the confidentiality of the 
identities of known or suspected ter-
rorists. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) because 
this system is exempt from the access 
and amendment provisions of sub-
section (d). 
(3) From subsections (d)(1), (2), (3), 
and (4) because these provisions con-
cern individual access to and amend-
ment of records contained in this sys-
tem, which consists of counterter-
rorism, investigatory and intelligence 
records. Compliance with these provi-
sions could alert the subject of a ter-
rorism investigation of the fact and na-
ture of the investigation, and/or the in-
vestigative interest of the FBI and/or 
other intelligence or law enforcement 
agencies; compromise sensitive infor-
mation classified in the interest of na-
tional security; interfere with the over-
all law enforcement process by leading 
to the destruction of evidence, im-
proper influencing of witnesses, fab-
rication of testimony, and/or flight of 
the subject; could identify a confiden-
tial source or disclose information 
which would constitute an unwar-
ranted invasion of another’s personal 
privacy; reveal a sensitive investiga-
tive or intelligence technique; or con-
stitute a potential danger to the health 
or safety of law enforcement personnel, 
confidential informants, and witnesses. 
Amendment of these records would 
interfere with ongoing counterter-
rorism investigations and analysis ac-
tivities and impose an impossible ad-
ministrative burden by requiring inves-
tigations, analyses, and reports to be 
continuously reinvestigated and re-
vised. Similarly, compliance with these 
provisions with respect to records on 
individuals who have been 
misidentified as known or suspected 
terrorists due to a close name simi-
larity could reveal the Government’s 
investigative interest in a terrorist 
suspect, because it could make known 
the name of the individual who actu-
ally is the subject of the Government’s 
interest. 
(4) From subsection (e)(1) because it 
is not always possible for TSC to know 
in advance what information is rel-
evant and necessary for it to complete 
an identity comparison between the in-
dividual being screened and a known or 
suspected terrorist. Also, because TSC 
and the FBI may not always know 
what information about an encounter 
with a known or suspected terrorist 
will be relevant to law enforcement for 
the purpose of conducting an oper-
ational response. 
(5) From subsection (e)(2) because ap-
plication of this provision could 
present a serious impediment to 
counterterrorism efforts in that it 
would put the subject of an investiga-
tion, study or analysis on notice of 
that fact, thereby permitting the sub-
ject to engage in conduct designed to 
frustrate or impede that activity. The 
nature of counterterrorism investiga-
tions is such that vital information 
about an individual frequently can be 
obtained only from other persons who 
are familiar with such individual and 
his/her activities. In such investiga-
tions it is not feasible to rely upon in-
formation furnished by the individual 
concerning his own activities. 
(6) From subsection (e)(3), to the ex-
tent that this subsection is interpreted 
to require TSC to provide notice to an 
individual if TSC receives information 
about that individual from a third 
party. Should the subsection be so in-
terpreted, exemption from this provi-
sion is necessary to avoid impeding 
counterterrorism efforts by putting the 
subject of an investigation, study or 
analysis on notice of that fact, thereby 
permitting the subject to engage in 
conduct intended to frustrate or im-
pede that activity. 
(7) From subsection (e)(5) because 
many of the records in this system are 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00382 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR373 
Department of Justice § 16.96 
derived from other domestic and for-
eign agency record systems and there-
fore it is not possible for the FBI and 
the TSC to vouch for their compliance 
with this provision; however, the TSC 
has implemented internal quality as-
surance procedures to ensure that TSC 
terrorist screening data is as thorough, 
accurate, and current as possible. In 
addition, TSC supports but does not 
conduct investigations; therefore, it 
must be able to collect information re-
lated to terrorist identities and en-
counters for distribution to law en-
forcement and intelligence agencies 
that do conduct terrorism investiga-
tions. In the collection of information 
for law enforcement, counterterrorism, 
and intelligence purposes, it is impos-
sible to determine in advance what in-
formation is accurate, relevant, time-
ly, and complete. With the passage of 
time, seemingly irrelevant or untimely 
information may acquire new signifi-
cance as further investigation brings 
new details to light. The restrictions 
imposed by (e)(5) would limit the abil-
ity of those agencies’ trained investiga-
tors and intelligence analysts to exer-
cise their judgment in conducting in-
vestigations and impede the develop-
ment of intelligence necessary for ef-
fective law enforcement and counter-
terrorism efforts. The TSC has, how-
ever, implemented internal quality as-
surance procedures to ensure that TSC 
terrorist screening data is as thorough, 
accurate, and current as possible. The 
FBI also is exempting the TSRS from 
the requirements of subsection (e)(5) in 
order to prevent the use of a challenge 
under subsection (e)(5) as a collateral 
means to obtain access to records in 
the TSRS. The FBI has exempted 
TSRS records from the access and 
amendment requirements of subsection 
(d) of the Privacy Act in order to pro-
tect the integrity of counterterrorism 
investigations. Exempting the TSRS 
from subsection (e)(5) serves to prevent 
the assertion of challenges to a 
record’s accuracy, timeliness, com-
pleteness, and/or relevance under sub-
section (e)(5) to circumvent the exemp-
tion claimed from subsection (d). 
(8) From subsection (e)(8) because to 
require individual notice of disclosure 
of information due to compulsory legal 
process would pose an impossible ad-
ministrative burden on the FBI and the 
TSC and could alert the subjects of 
counterterrorism, law enforcement, or 
intelligence investigations to the fact 
of those investigations when not pre-
viously known. 
(9) From subsection (g) to the extent 
that the system is exempt from other 
specific subsections of the Privacy Act. 
(t) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (4); 
(d)(1), (2), (3) and (4); (e)(1), (2), (3), (5) 
and (8); and (g) of the Privacy Act: 
(1) Law Enforcement National Data 
Exchange (N–DEx), (JUSTICE/FBI–020). 
(2) These exemptions apply only to 
the extent that information in this sys-
tem is subject to exemption pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2). Where compliance 
would not appear to interfere with or 
adversely affect the law enforcement 
purposes of this system, or the overall 
law enforcement process, the applica-
ble exemption may be waived by the 
FBI in its sole discretion. 
(u) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because 
this system is exempt from the access 
provisions of subsection (d). Also, be-
cause making available to a record 
subject the accounting of disclosures 
from records concerning him/her would 
specifically reveal any investigative in-
terest in the individual. Revealing this 
information may thus compromise on-
going law enforcement efforts. Reveal-
ing this information may also permit 
the record subject to take measures to 
impede the investigation, such as de-
stroying evidence, intimidating poten-
tial witnesses or fleeing the area to 
avoid the investigation. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) because 
this system is exempt from the access 
and amendment provisions of sub-
section (d). 
(3) From subsections (d)(1), (2), (3), 
and (4), because these provisions con-
cern individual access to and amend-
ment of investigatory records, compli-
ance with which could alert the subject 
of an investigation of the fact and na-
ture of the investigation, and/or the in-
vestigative interest of the FBI and 
other law enforcement agencies; inter-
fere with the overall law enforcement 
process by leading to the destruction of 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00383 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR374 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.96 
evidence, improper influencing of wit-
nesses, fabrication of testimony, and/or 
flight of the subject; possibly identify a 
confidential source or disclose informa-
tion which would constitute an unwar-
ranted invasion of another’s personal 
privacy; reveal a sensitive investiga-
tive or intelligence technique; or con-
stitute a potential danger to the health 
or safety of law enforcement personnel, 
confidential informants, and witnesses. 
Amendment of these records would 
interfere with ongoing investigations 
and other law enforcement activities 
and impose an impossible administra-
tive burden by requiring investiga-
tions, analyses, and reports to be con-
tinuously reinvestigated and revised. 
(4) From subsection (e)(1) because it 
is not always possible to know in ad-
vance what information is relevant and 
necessary for law enforcement purposes 
and, in fact, a major tenet of the N– 
DEx information sharing system is 
that the relevance of certain informa-
tion may not always be evident in the 
absence of the ability to correlate that 
information with other existing law en-
forcement data. 
(5) From subsection (e)(2) because ap-
plication of this provision could 
present a serious impediment to efforts 
to solve crimes and improve homeland 
security in that it would put the sub-
ject of an investigation on notice of 
that fact, thereby permitting the sub-
ject to engage in conduct intended to 
frustrate or impede that activity. 
(6) From subsection (e)(3) because 
disclosure would put the subject of an 
investigation on notice of that fact and 
would permit the subject to engage in 
conduct intended to thwart that activ-
ity. 
(7)(i) From subsection (e)(5) because 
many of the records in this system are 
records contributed by other agencies 
and the restrictions imposed by (e)(5) 
would limit the utility of the N–DEx 
system. All data contributors are ex-
pected to ensure that information they 
share is relevant, timely, complete and 
accurate. In fact, rules for use of the 
N–DEx system will require that infor-
mation be updated periodically and not 
be used as a basis for action or dissemi-
nated beyond the recipient without the 
recipient first obtaining permission 
from the record owner/contributor. 
These rules will be enforced through 
robust audit procedures. The existence 
of these rules should ameliorate any 
perceived concerns about the integrity 
of the information in the N–DEx sys-
tem. Nevertheless, exemption from this 
provision is warranted in order to re-
duce the administrative burden on the 
FBI to vouch for compliance with the 
provision by all N–DEx data contribu-
tors and to encourage those contribu-
tors to share information the signifi-
cance of which may only become ap-
parent when combined with other in-
formation in the N–DEx system. 
(ii) The FBI is also exempting the N– 
DEx from subsection (e)(5) in order to 
block the use of a challenge under sub-
section (e)(5) as a collateral means to 
obtain access to records in the N–DEx. 
The FBI has exempted these records 
from the access and amendment re-
quirements of subsection (d) of the Pri-
vacy Act in order to protect the integ-
rity of law enforcement investigations. 
Exempting the N–DEx system from 
subsection (e)(5) complements this ex-
emption and will provide the FBI with 
the ability to prevent the assertion of 
challenges to a record’s accuracy, 
timeliness, completeness and/or rel-
evance under subsection (e)(5) to cir-
cumvent the exemption claimed from 
subsection (d). 
(8) From subsection (e)(8), because to 
require individual notice of disclosure 
of information due to compulsory legal 
process would pose an impossible ad-
ministrative burden on the FBI and 
may alert the subjects of law enforce-
ment investigations to the fact of 
those investigations, when not pre-
viously known. 
(9) From subsection (g) to the extent 
that the system is exempt from other 
specific subsections of the Privacy Act. 
(v) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (4); 
(d)(1), (2), (3), and (4); (e)(1), (2), (3), 
(4)(G), (H), and (I), (5), and (8); (f); and 
(g) of the Privacy Act: 
(1) FBI Data Warehouse System, 
(JUSTICE/FBI–022). 
(2) These exemptions apply only to 
the extent that information in this sys-
tem is subject to exemption pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) and (k). Where com-
pliance with an exempted provision 
could not appear to interfere with or 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00384 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR375 
Department of Justice § 16.96 
adversely affect interests of the United 
States or other system stakeholders, 
the Department of Justice (DOJ) in its 
sole discretion may waive an exemp-
tion in whole or in part; exercise of 
this discretionary waiver prerogative 
in a particular matter shall not create 
any entitlement to or expectation of 
waiver in that matter or any other 
matter. As a condition of discretionary 
waiver, the DOJ in its sole discretion 
may impose any restrictions deemed 
advisable by the DOJ (including, but 
not limited to, restrictions on the loca-
tion, manner, or scope of notice, ac-
cess, or amendment). 
(w) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3), the re-
quirement that an accounting be made 
available to the named subject of a 
record, because this system is exempt 
from the access provisions of sub-
section (d). Also, because making 
available to a record subject the ac-
counting of disclosures from records 
concerning him/her would specifically 
reveal any law enforcement or national 
security investigative interest in the 
individual by the FBI or agencies that 
are recipients of the disclosures. Re-
vealing this information could com-
promise ongoing, authorized law en-
forcement and intelligence efforts, par-
ticularly efforts to identify and defuse 
any potential acts of terrorism or 
other potential violations of criminal 
law. Revealing this information could 
also permit the record subject to ob-
tain valuable insight concerning the 
information obtained during any inves-
tigation and to take measures to cir-
cumvent the investigation. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) notifica-
tion requirements because this system 
is exempt from the access and amend-
ment provisions of subsection (d) as 
well as the accounting of disclosures 
provision of subsection (c)(3). 
(3) From subsections (d)(1), (2), (3), 
and (4) and (e)(4)(G) and (H) because 
these provisions concern individual ac-
cess to and amendment of law enforce-
ment, intelligence and counterintel-
ligence, and counterterrorism records, 
and compliance could alert the subject 
of an authorized law enforcement or in-
telligence activity about that par-
ticular activity and the investigative 
interest of the FBI or other law en-
forcement or intelligence agencies. 
Providing access could compromise 
sensitive information classified to pro-
tect national security; disclose infor-
mation that would constitute an un-
warranted invasion of another’s per-
sonal privacy; reveal a sensitive inves-
tigative or intelligence technique; 
could provide information that would 
allow a subject to avoid detection or 
apprehension; or constitute a potential 
danger to the health or safety of law 
enforcement personnel, confidential 
sources, and witnesses. The FBI takes 
seriously its obligation to maintain ac-
curate records despite its assertion of 
this exemption, and to the extent it, in 
its sole discretion, agrees to permit 
amendment or correction of FBI 
records, it will share that information 
in appropriate cases with subjects of 
the information. 
(4) From subsection (e)(1) because it 
is not always possible to know in ad-
vance what information is relevant and 
necessary for law enforcement and in-
telligence purposes. The relevance and 
utility of certain information that may 
have a nexus to terrorism or other 
crimes may not always be evident until 
and unless it is vetted and matched 
with other sources of information that 
are necessarily and lawfully main-
tained by the FBI. 
(5) From subsections (e)(2) and (3) be-
cause application of these provisions 
could present a serious impediment to 
efforts to solve crimes and improve na-
tional security. Application of these 
provisions would put the subject of an 
investigation on notice of that fact and 
allow the subject an opportunity to en-
gage in conduct intended to impede 
that activity or avoid apprehension. 
(6) From subsection (e)(4)(I), to the 
extent that this subsection is inter-
preted to require more detail regarding 
the record sources in this system than 
has been published in the F
EDERAL 
REGISTER. Should the subsection be so 
interpreted, exemption from this provi-
sion is necessary to protect the sources 
of law enforcement and intelligence in-
formation and to protect the privacy 
and safety of witnesses and informants 
and others who provide information to 
the FBI. Further, greater specificity of 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00385 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR376 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.96 
properly classified records could com-
promise national security. 
(7) From subsection (e)(5) because in 
the collection of information for au-
thorized law enforcement and intel-
ligence purposes, it is impossible to de-
termine in advance what information 
is accurate, relevant, timely and com-
plete. With time, seemingly irrelevant 
or untimely information may acquire 
new significance when new details are 
brought to light. Additionally, the in-
formation may aid in establishing pat-
terns of activity and providing crimi-
nal or intelligence leads. It could im-
pede investigative progress if it were 
necessary to assure relevance, accu-
racy, timeliness and completeness of 
all information obtained during the 
scope of an investigation. Further, 
some of the records in this system 
come from other agencies and it would 
be administratively impossible for the 
FBI to vouch for the compliance of 
these agencies with this provision. 
(8) From subsection (e)(8) because to 
require individual notice of disclosure 
of information due to compulsory legal 
process would pose an impossible ad-
ministrative burden on the FBI and 
may alert the subjects of law enforce-
ment investigations, who might be oth-
erwise unaware, to the fact of those in-
vestigations. 
(9) From subsections (f) and (g) to the 
extent that the system is exempt from 
other specific subsections of the Pri-
vacy Act. 
(x) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (4); 
(d)(1), (2), (3), and (4); (e)(1), (2), (3), 
(4)(G), (H), and (I), (5), and (8); (f); and 
(g): 
(1) The FBI Online Collaboration Sys-
tems (JUSTICE/FBI–004). 
(2) These exemptions apply only to 
the extent that information in this sys-
tem is subject to exemption pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) or (k). Where the FBI 
determines compliance with an ex-
empted provision would not appear to 
interfere with or adversely affect inter-
ests of the United States or other sys-
tem stakeholders, the FBI in its sole 
discretion may waive an exemption in 
whole or in part; exercise of this discre-
tionary waiver prerogative in a par-
ticular matter shall not create any en-
titlement to or expectation of waiver 
in that matter or any other matter. As 
a condition of discretionary waiver, the 
FBI in its sole discretion may impose 
any restrictions deemed advisable by 
the FBI (including, but not limited to, 
restrictions on the location, manner, 
or scope of notice, access or amend-
ment). 
(y) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3), the re-
quirement that an accounting be made 
available to the named subject of a 
record, because this system is exempt 
from the access provisions of sub-
section (d). Also, because making 
available to a record subject the ac-
counting of disclosures from records 
concerning him/her would specifically 
reveal any law enforcement or national 
security investigative interest in the 
individual by the FBI or agencies that 
are recipients of the disclosures. Re-
vealing this information could com-
promise ongoing, authorized law en-
forcement and intelligence efforts, par-
ticularly efforts to identify and defuse 
any potential acts of terrorism or 
other potential violations of criminal 
law. Revealing this information could 
also permit the record subject to ob-
tain valuable insight concerning the 
information obtained during any inves-
tigation and to take measures to cir-
cumvent the investigation (e.g. destroy 
evidence or flee the area to avoid in-
vestigation). 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) notifica-
tion requirements because this system 
is exempt from the access and amend-
ment provisions of subsection (d) as 
well as the accounting disclosures pro-
vision of subsection (c)(3). The FBI 
takes seriously its obligation to main-
tain accurate records despite its asser-
tion of this exemption, and to the ex-
tent it, in its sole discretion, agrees to 
permit amendment or correction of 
FBI records, it will share that informa-
tion in appropriate cases. 
(3) From subsections (d)(1), (2), (3), 
and (4); (e)(4)(G) and (H); (e)(8); (f); and 
(g) because these provisions concern in-
dividual access to and amendment of 
law enforcement and intelligence 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00386 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR377 
Department of Justice § 16.97 
records and compliance with such pro-
visions could alert the subject of an au-
thorized law enforcement or intel-
ligence activity about that particular 
activity and the investigative interest 
of the FBI and/or other law enforce-
ment or intelligence agencies. Pro-
viding access rights could compromise 
sensitive law enforcement information, 
disclose information that could con-
stitute an unwarranted invasion of an-
other’s personal privacy; reveal a sen-
sitive investigative or intelligence 
technique; provide information that 
would allow a subject to avoid detec-
tion or apprehension; or constitute a 
potential danger to the health or safe-
ty of law enforcement personnel, con-
fidential sources, and witnesses. The 
FBI takes seriously its obligation to 
maintain accurate records despite its 
assertion of this exemption, and to the 
extent it, in its sole discretion, agrees 
to permit amendment or correction of 
FBI records, it will share that informa-
tion in appropriate cases with subjects 
of the information. 
(4) From subsection (e)(1) because it 
is not always possible to know in ad-
vance what information is relevant and 
necessary for law enforcement and in-
telligence purposes. Relevance and ne-
cessity are questions of judgment and 
timing. For example, what appears rel-
evant and necessary when collected ul-
timately may be deemed unnecessary. 
It is only after information has been 
fully assessed that its relevancy and 
necessity in a specific investigative ac-
tivity can be determined. 
(5) From subsections (e)(2) and (3) be-
cause application of these provisions 
requiring collection directly from the 
subject individuals and informing indi-
viduals regarding information to be 
collected about them could present a 
serious impediment to efforts to solve 
crimes and improve national security. 
Application of these provisions could 
put the subject of an investigation on 
notice of the existence of the investiga-
tion and allow the subject an oppor-
tunity to engage in conduct intended 
to obstruct or otherwise impede that 
activity or take steps to avoid appre-
hension. 
(6) From subsection (e)(4)(I), to the 
extent that this subsection is inter-
preted to require more detail regarding 
the record sources in this system than 
has already been published in the F
ED-
ERAL REGISTER through the SORN doc-
umentation. Should the subsection be 
so interpreted, exemption from this 
provision is necessary to protect the 
sources of law enforcement and intel-
ligence information and to protect the 
privacy and safety of witnesses and in-
formants and others who provide infor-
mation to the FBI. 
(7) From subsection (e)(5) because in 
the collection of information for au-
thorized law enforcement and intel-
ligence purposes it is often impossible 
to determine in advance what informa-
tion is accurate, relevant, timely, and 
complete. With time, additional facts, 
or analysis, information may acquire 
new significance. The restrictions im-
posed by subsection (e)(5) would thus 
limit the ability of trained investiga-
tors and intelligence analysts to exer-
cise their judgment in reporting on in-
vestigations and impede the develop-
ment of criminal intelligence nec-
essary for effective law enforcement. 
Although the FBI has claimed this ex-
emption, it continuously works with 
its federal, state, local, tribal, and 
international partners to maintain the 
accuracy of records to the greatest ex-
tent practicable. The FBI does so with 
established policies and practices. The 
criminal justice and national security 
communities have a strong operational 
interest in using up-to-date and accu-
rate records and will apply their own 
procedures and foster relationships 
with their partners to further this in-
terest. 
[Order No. 40–80, 45 FR 5301, Jan. 23, 1980] 
EDITORIAL NOTE: For FEDERAL REGISTER ci-
tations affecting § 16.96, see the List of CFR 
Sections Affected, which appears in the 
Finding Aids section of the printed volume 
and at www.govinfo.gov. 
§ 16.97 Exemption of Bureau of Pris-
ons Systems—limited access. 
(a) The following systems of records 
are exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a (c) (3) 
and (4), (d), (e) (2) and (3), (e)(4) (H), 
(e)(8), (f) and (g): 
(1) Custodial and Security Record 
System (JUSTICE/BOP–001). 
(2) Industrial Inmate Employment 
Record System (JUSTICE/BOP–003). 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00387 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR378 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.97 
(3) Inmate Administrative Remedy 
Record System (JUSTICE/BOP–004). 
(4) Inmate Commissary Accounts 
Record System (JUSTICE/BOP–006). 
(5) Inmate Physical and Mental 
Health Record System (JUSTICE/BOP– 
007). 
(6) Inmate Safety and Accident Com-
pensation Record System (JUSTICE/ 
BOP–008). 
(7) Federal Tort Claims Act Record 
System (JUSTICE/BOP–009). 
(8) Federal Tort Claims Act Record 
System (JUSTICE/BOP–009). 
These exemptions apply only to the ex-
tent that information in these systems 
is subject to exemption pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552a(j). 
(b) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because in-
mates will not be permitted to gain ac-
cess or to contest contents of these 
record systems under the provisions of 
subsection (d) of 5 U.S.C. 552a. Reveal-
ing disclosure accountings can com-
promise legitimate law enforcement 
activities and Bureau of Prisons re-
sponsibilities. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) because ex-
emption from provisions of subsection 
(d) will make notification of formal 
disputes inapplicable. 
(3) From subsection (d) because ex-
emption from this subsection is essen-
tial to protect internal processes by 
which Bureau personnel are able to for-
mulate decisions and policies with re-
gard to federal prisoners, to prevent 
disclosure of information to federal in-
mates that would jeopardize legitimate 
correctional interests of security, cus-
tody, or rehabilitation, and to permit 
receipt of relevant information from 
other federal agencies, state and local 
law enforcement agencies, and federal 
and state probation and judicial of-
fices. 
(4) From subsection (e)(2) because 
primary collection of information di-
rectly from federal inmates about 
criminal sentences or criminal records 
is highly impractical and inappro-
priate. 
(5) From subsection (e)(3) because in 
view of the Bureau of Prisons’ respon-
sibilities, application of this provision 
to its operations and collection of in-
formation is inappropriate. 
(6) From subsection (e)(4)(H) because 
exemption from provisions of sub-
section (d) will make publication of 
agency procedures under this sub-
section inapplicable. 
(7) From subsection (e)(8) because the 
nature of Bureau of Prisons law en-
forcement activities renders notice of 
compliance with compulsory legal 
process impractical. 
(8) From subsection (f) because ex-
emption from provisions of subsection 
(d) will render compliance with provi-
sions of this subsection inapplicable. 
(9) From subsection (g) because ex-
emption from provisions of subsection 
(d) will render provisions of this sub-
section inapplicable. 
(c) The following system of records is 
exempted pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) 
from subsections (c)(3) and (4), (d), 
(e)(1), (2) and (3), (e)(5) and (e)(8), and 
(g). In addition, the following system of 
records is exempted pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) from subsections 
(c)(3), (d), and (e)(1): 
Bureau of Prisons Access Control Entry/Exit, 
(JUSTICE/BOP–010). 
(d) These exemptions apply only to 
the extent that information in these 
systems is subject to exemption pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) or (k)(2). 
Where compliance would not appear to 
interfere with or adversely affect the 
law enforcement process, and/or where 
it may be appropriate to permit indi-
viduals to contest the accuracy of the 
information collected, e.g. public 
source materials, or those supplied by 
third parties, the applicable exemption 
may be waived, either partially or to-
tally, by the BOP. Exemptions from 
the particular subsections are justified 
for the following reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) for similar 
reasons as those enumerated in para-
graph (3). 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) to the ex-
tent that exemption from subsection 
(d) will make notification of correc-
tions or notations of disputes inappli-
cable. 
(3) From the access provisions of sub-
section (d) to the extent that exemp-
tion from this subsection may appear 
to be necessary to prevent access by 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00388 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR379 
Department of Justice § 16.97 
record subjects to information that 
may jeopardize the legitimate correc-
tional interests of safety, security, and 
good order of Bureau of Prisons facili-
ties; to protect the privacy of third 
parties; and to protect access to rel-
evant information received from third 
parties, such as other Federal State, 
local and foreign law enforcement 
agencies, Federal and State probation 
and judicial offices, the disclosure of 
which may permit a record subject to 
evade apprehension, prosecution, etc.; 
and/or to otherwise protect investiga-
tory or law enforcement information, 
whether received from other third par-
ties, or whether developed internally 
by the BOP. 
(4) From the amendment provisions 
of subsection (d) because amendment of 
the records would interfere with law 
enforcement operations and impose an 
impossible administrative burden. In 
addition to efforts to ensure accuracy 
so as to withstand possible judicial 
scrutiny, it would require that law en-
forcement and investigatory informa-
tion be continuously reexamined, even 
where the information may have been 
collected from the record subject. Also, 
where records are provided by other 
Federal criminal justice agencies or 
other State, local and foreign jurisdic-
tions, it may be administratively im-
possible to ensure compliance with this 
provision. 
(5) From subsection (e)(1) to the ex-
tent that the BOP may collect infor-
mation that may be relevant to the law 
enforcement operations of other agen-
cies. In the interests of overall, effec-
tive law enforcement, such information 
should be retained and made available 
to those agencies with relevant respon-
sibilities. 
(6) From subsection (e)(2) because 
primary collection of information di-
rectly from the record subject is often 
highly impractical, inappropriate and 
could result in inaccurate information. 
(7) From subsection (e)(3) because 
compliance with this subsection may 
impede the collection of information 
that may be valuable to law enforce-
ment interests. 
(8) From subsection (e)(5) because in 
the collection and maintenance of in-
formation for law enforcement pur-
poses, it is impossible to determine in 
advance what information is accurate, 
relevant, timely and complete. Data 
which may seem unrelated, irrelevant 
or incomplete when collected may take 
on added meaning or significance as an 
investigation progresses or with the 
passage of time, and could be relevant 
to future law enforcement decisions. 
(9) From subsection (e)(8) because the 
nature of BOP law enforcement activi-
ties renders notice of compliance with 
compulsory legal process impractical 
and could seriously jeopardize institu-
tion security and personal safety and/ 
or impede overall law enforcement ef-
forts. 
(10) From subsection (g) to the extent 
that the system is exempted from sub-
section (d). 
(e) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a (c) (3) and 
(4), (d), (e) (2) and (3), (e)(5) and (e)(8), 
(f) and (g): 
Telephone Activity Record System (JUS-
TICE/BOP–011). 
(f) These exemptions apply only to 
the extent that information in this sys-
tem is subject to exemption pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 552a (j)(2) and/or (k)(2). 
Where compliance would not appear to 
interfere with or adversely affect the 
law enforcement process, and/or where 
it may be appropriate to permit indi-
viduals to contest the accuracy of the 
information collected, the applicable 
exemption may be waived, either par-
tially or totally, by the BOP. Exemp-
tions from the particular subsections 
are justified for the following reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) to the ex-
tent that this system of records is ex-
empt from subsection (d), and for such 
reasons as those cited for subsection 
(d) in paragraph (f)(3) below. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) to the ex-
tent that exemption from subsection 
(d) makes this exemption inapplicable. 
(3) From the access provisions of sub-
section (d) because exemption from 
this subsection is essential to prevent 
access of information by record sub-
jects that may invade third party pri-
vacy; frustrate the investigative proc-
ess; jeopardize the legitimate correc-
tional interests of safety, security, and 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00389 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR380 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.97 
good order to prison facilities; or oth-
erwise compromise, impede, or inter-
fere with BOP or other law enforce-
ment agency activities. 
(4) From the amendment provisions 
from subsection (d) because amend-
ment of the records may interfere with 
law enforcement operations and would 
impose an impossible administrative 
burden by requiring that, in addition 
to efforts to ensure accuracy so as to 
withstand possible judicial scrutiny, it 
would require that law enforcement in-
formation be continuously reexamined, 
even where the information may have 
been collected from the record subject. 
Also, some of these records come from 
other Federal criminal justice agencies 
or State, local and foreign jurisdic-
tions, or from Federal and State proba-
tion and judicial offices, and it is ad-
ministratively impossible to ensure 
that the records comply with this pro-
vision. 
(5) From subsection (e)(2) because the 
nature of criminal and other investiga-
tive activities is such that vital infor-
mation about an individual can be ob-
tained from other persons who are fa-
miliar with such individual and his/her 
activities. In such investigations it is 
not feasible to rely solely upon infor-
mation furnished by the individual 
concerning his/her own activities since 
it may result in inaccurate informa-
tion. 
(6) From subsection (e)(3) because in 
view of BOP’s operational responsibil-
ities, application of this provision to 
the collection of information is inap-
propriate. Application of this provision 
could provide the subject with substan-
tial information which may in fact im-
pede the information gathering process 
or compromise an investigation. 
(7) From subsection (e)(5) because in 
the collection and maintenance of in-
formation for law enforcement pur-
poses, it is impossible to determine in 
advance what information is accurate, 
relevant, timely and complete. Mate-
rial which may seem unrelated, irrele-
vant or incomplete when collected may 
take on added meaning or significance 
at a later date or as an investigation 
progresses. Also, some of these records 
may come from other Federal, State, 
local and foreign law enforcement 
agencies, and from Federal and State 
probation and judicial offices and it is 
administratively impossible to ensure 
that the records comply with this pro-
vision. It would also require that law 
enforcement information be continu-
ously reexamined even where the infor-
mation may have been collected from 
the record subject. 
(8) From subsection (e)(8) because the 
nature of BOP law enforcement activi-
ties renders impractical the notice of 
compliance with compulsory legal 
process. This requirement could 
present a serious impediment to law 
enforcement such as revealing inves-
tigative techniques or the existence of 
confidential investigations, jeopardize 
the security of third parties, or other-
wise compromise law enforcement ef-
forts. 
(9)–(10) [Reserved] 
(11) From subsections (f) and (g) to 
the extent that this system is exempt 
from the access and amendment provi-
sions of subsection (d). 
(g) The following system of records is 
exempt pursuant to the provisions of 5 
U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) from subsections (c) (3) 
and (4), (d), (e) (1), (2), and (3), (e)(5) and 
(e)(8), and (g) of 5 U.S.C. 552a. In addi-
tion, the following system of records is 
exempt pursuant to the provisions of 5 
U.S.C. 552a (k)(1) and (k)(2) from sub-
sections (c)(3), (d), and (e)(1) of 5 U.S.C. 
552a: 
Bureau of Prisons, Office of Internal Affairs 
Investigative Records, JUSTICE/BOP–012 
(h) These exemptions apply only to 
the extent that information in this sys-
tem is subject to exemption pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 552a (j)(2), (k)(1), and (k)(2). 
Where compliance would not appear to 
interfere with or adversely affect the 
law enforcement process, and/or where 
it may be appropriate to permit indi-
viduals to contest the accuracy of the 
information collected, e.g., public 
source materials, the applicable ex-
emption may be waived, either par-
tially or totally, by the Office of Inter-
nal Affairs (OIA). Exemptions from the 
particular subsections are justified for 
the following reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because re-
lease of disclosure accounting could 
alert the subject of an investigation of 
an actual or potential criminal, civil, 
or regulatory violation to the existence 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00390 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR381 
Department of Justice § 16.97 
of the investigation and the fact that 
they are subjects of the investigation, 
and reveal investigative interest by not 
only the OIA but also by the recipient 
agency. Since release of such informa-
tion to the subjects of an investigation 
would provide them with significant in-
formation concerning the nature of the 
investigation, release could result in 
activities that would impede or com-
promise law enforcement such as: the 
destruction of documentary evidence; 
improper influencing of witnesses; 
endangerment of the physical safety of 
confidential sources, witnesses, and 
law enforcement personnel; fabrication 
of testimony; and flight of the subject 
from the area. In addition, release of 
disclosure accounting could result in 
the release of properly classified infor-
mation which could compromise the 
national defense or disrupt foreign pol-
icy. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) because 
this system is exempt from the access 
provisions of subsection (d) pursuant to 
subsections (j) and (k) of the Privacy 
Act. 
(3) From the access and amendment 
provisions of subsection (d) because ac-
cess to the records contained in this 
system of records could provide the 
subject of an investigation with infor-
mation concerning law enforcement ac-
tivities such as that relating to an ac-
tual or potential criminal, civil or reg-
ulatory violation; the existence of an 
investigation; the nature and scope of 
the information and evidence obtained 
as to his activities; the identity of con-
fidential sources, witnesses, and law 
enforcement personnel; and informa-
tion that may enable the subject to 
avoid detection or apprehension. Such 
disclosure would present a serious im-
pediment to effective law enforcement 
where they prevent the successful com-
pletion of the investigation; endanger 
the physical safety of confidential 
sources, witnesses, and law enforce-
ment personnel; and/or lead to the im-
proper influencing of witnesses, the de-
struction of evidence, or the fabrica-
tion of testimony. In addition, grant-
ing access to such information could 
disclose security-sensitive or confiden-
tial business information or informa-
tion that would constitute an unwar-
ranted invasion of the personal privacy 
of third parties. Finally, access to the 
records could result in the release of 
properly classified information which 
could compromise the national defense 
or disrupt foreign policy. Amendment 
of the records would interfere with on-
going investigations and law enforce-
ment activities and impose an impos-
sible administrative burden by requir-
ing investigations to be continuously 
reinvestigated. 
(4) From subsection (e)(1) because the 
application of this provision could im-
pair investigations and interfere with 
the law enforcement responsibilities of 
the OIA for the following reasons: 
(i) It is not possible to detect rel-
evance or necessity of specific informa-
tion in the early stages of a civil, 
criminal or other law enforcement in-
vestigation, case, or matter, including 
investigations in which use is made of 
properly classified information. Rel-
evance and necessity are questions of 
judgment and timing, and it is only 
after the information is evaluated that 
the relevance and necessity of such in-
formation can be established. 
(ii) During the course of any inves-
tigation, the OIA may obtain informa-
tion concerning actual or potential vio-
lations of laws other than those within 
the scope of its jurisdiction. In the in-
terest of effective law enforcement, the 
OIA should retain this information as 
it may aid in establishing patterns of 
criminal activity, and can provide val-
uable leads for Federal and other law 
enforcement agencies. 
(iii) In interviewing individuals or 
obtaining other forms of evidence dur-
ing an investigation, information may 
be supplied to an investigator which re-
lates to matters incidental to the pri-
mary purpose of the investigation but 
which may relate also to matters under 
the investigative jurisdiction of an-
other agency. Such information cannot 
readily be segregated. 
(5) From subsection (e)(2) because, in 
some instances, the application of this 
provision would present a serious im-
pediment to law enforcement for the 
following reasons: 
(i) The subject of an investigation 
would be placed on notice as to the ex-
istence of an investigation and would 
therefore be able to avoid detection or 
apprehension, to improperly influence 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00391 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR382 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.97 
witnesses, to destroy evidence, or to 
fabricate testimony. 
(ii) In certain circumstances the sub-
ject of an investigation cannot be re-
quired to provide information to inves-
tigators, and information relating to a 
subject’s illegal acts, violations of 
rules of conduct, or any other mis-
conduct must be obtained from other 
sources. 
(iii) In any investigation it is nec-
essary to obtain evidence from a vari-
ety of sources other than the subject of 
the investigation in order to verify the 
evidence necessary for successful liti-
gation. 
(6) From subsection (e)(3) because the 
application of this provision would pro-
vide the subject of an investigation 
with substantial information which 
could impede or compromise the inves-
tigation. Providing such notice to a 
subject of an investigation could inter-
fere with an undercover investigation 
by revealing its existence, and could 
endanger the physical safety of con-
fidential sources, witnesses, and inves-
tigators by revealing their identities. 
(7) From subsection (e)(5) because the 
application of this provision would pre-
vent the collection of any data not 
shown to be accurate, relevant, timely, 
and complete at the moment it is col-
lected. In the collection of information 
for law enforcement purposes, it is im-
possible to determine in advance what 
information is accurate, relevant, 
timely, and complete. Material which 
may seem unrelated, irrelevant, or in-
complete when collected may take on 
added meaning or significance as an in-
vestigation progresses. The restrictions 
of this provision could interfere with 
the preparation of a complete inves-
tigation report, and thereby impede ef-
fective law enforcement. 
(8) From subsection (e)(8) because the 
application of this provision could pre-
maturely reveal an ongoing criminal 
investigation to the subject of the in-
vestigation, and could reveal investiga-
tion techniques, procedures, and/or evi-
dence. 
(9) From subsection (g) to the extent 
that this system is exempt from the ac-
cess and amendment provisions of sub-
section (d) pursuant to subsections 
(j)(2), (k)(1), and (k)(2) of the Privacy 
Act. 
(i) Consistent with the legislative 
purpose of the Privacy Act of 1974 (Pub. 
L. 93–579) the BOP has initiated a pro-
cedure whereby federal inmates in cus-
tody may gain access and review their 
individual prison files maintained at 
the institution of incarceration. Access 
to these files will be limited only to 
the extent that the disclosure of 
records to the inmate would jeopardize 
internal decision-making or policy de-
terminations essential to the effective 
operation of the Bureau of Prisons; to 
the extent that disclosure of the 
records to the inmate would jeopardize 
privacy rights of others, or a legiti-
mate correctional interest of security, 
custody, or rehabilitation; and to the 
extent information is furnished with a 
legitimate expectation of confiden-
tiality. The Bureau of Prisons will con-
tinue to provide access to former in-
mates under existing regulations as is 
consistent with the interests listed 
above. Under present Bureau of Prisons 
regulations, inmates in federal institu-
tions may file administrative com-
plaints on any subject under the con-
trol of the Bureau. This would include 
complaints pertaining to information 
contained in these systems of records. 
(j) The following system of records is 
exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) and 
(k) from subsections (c)(3) and (4); (d); 
(e)(1), (2), (3), (4)(G), (H), and (I), (5), (8); 
(f); and (g): Inmate Central Records 
System (JUSTICE/BOP–005). 
(k) These exemptions apply only to 
the extent that information in this sys-
tem is subject to exemption pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 552a (j)(2) and/or (k)(2). 
Where compliance would not appear to 
interfere with or adversely affect the 
law enforcement process, and/or where 
it may be appropriate to permit indi-
viduals to contest the accuracy of the 
information collected, the applicable 
exemption may be waived, either par-
tially or totally, by the BOP. Exemp-
tions from the particular subsections 
are justified for the following reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3), the re-
quirement that an accounting be made 
available to the named subject of a 
record, because this system is exempt 
from the access provisions of sub-
section (d). Also, because making 
available to a record subject the ac-
counting of disclosures from records 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00392 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR383 
Department of Justice § 16.97 
concerning the subject individual 
would specifically reveal any investiga-
tive interest in the individual. Reveal-
ing this information may thus com-
promise ongoing law enforcement ef-
forts, as well as efforts to identify and 
defuse any potential acts of terrorism. 
Revealing this information may also 
permit the subject individual to take 
measures to impede the investigation, 
such as destroying evidence, intimi-
dating potential witnesses, or fleeing 
the area to avoid the investigation. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) notifica-
tion requirements because this system 
is exempt from the access and amend-
ment provisions of subsection (d). 
(3) From subsections (d)(1), (2), (3), 
and (4), because these provisions con-
cern individual access to and amend-
ment of records, compliance with 
which could jeopardize the legitimate 
correctional interests of safety, secu-
rity, and good order of prison facilities; 
alert the subject of a suspicious activ-
ity report of the fact and nature of the 
report and any underlying investiga-
tion and/or the investigative interest of 
the BOP and other law enforcement 
agencies; interfere with the overall law 
enforcement process by leading to the 
destruction of evidence, improper in-
fluencing of witnesses, and/or flight of 
the subject; possibly identify a con-
fidential source or disclose information 
which would constitute an unwar-
ranted invasion of another’s personal 
privacy; reveal a sensitive investiga-
tive or intelligence technique; or con-
stitute a potential danger to the health 
or safety of law enforcement personnel, 
confidential informants, and witnesses. 
Although the BOP has rules in place 
emphasizing that records should be 
kept up to date, the requirement for 
amendment of these records would 
interfere with ongoing law enforcement 
activities and impose an impossible ad-
ministrative burden by requiring inves-
tigations, analyses, and reports to be 
continuously reinvestigated and re-
vised. 
(4) From subsection (e)(1) because it 
is not always possible to know in ad-
vance what information is relevant and 
necessary for the proper safekeeping, 
care, and custody of incarcerated per-
sons, and for the proper security and 
safety of federal prisons and the public. 
In addition, to the extent that the BOP 
may collect information that may also 
be relevant to the law enforcement op-
erations of other agencies, in the inter-
ests of overall, effective law enforce-
ment, such information should be re-
tained and made available to those 
agencies with such relevant respon-
sibilities. 
(5) From subsections (e)(2) because 
the nature of criminal investigative 
and correctional activities is such that 
vital information about an individual 
can be obtained from other persons 
who are familiar with such individual 
and his/her activities. In such inves-
tigations and activities, it is not fea-
sible to rely solely upon information 
furnished by the individual concerning 
his/her own activities since it may re-
sult in inaccurate information and 
compromise ongoing criminal inves-
tigations or correctional management 
decisions. 
(6) From subsections (e)(3) because in 
view of BOP’s operational responsibil-
ities, the application of this provision 
would provide the subject of an inves-
tigation or correctional matter with 
significant information which may in 
fact impede the information gathering 
process or compromise ongoing crimi-
nal investigations or correctional man-
agement decisions. 
(7) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) 
because this system is exempt from the 
access provisions of subsection (d). 
(8) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because 
publishing further details regarding 
categories of sources of records in the 
system may compromise ongoing in-
vestigations, reveal investigatory tech-
niques and descriptions of confidential 
informants, or constitute a potential 
danger to the health or safety of law 
enforcement personnel. 
(9) From subsection (e)(5) because in 
the collection and maintenance of in-
formation for law enforcement pur-
poses, it is difficult to determine in ad-
vance what information is accurate, 
relevant, timely, and complete. Data 
which may seem unrelated, irrelevant, 
or incomplete when collected may take 
on added meaning or significance dur-
ing the course of an investigation or 
with the passage of time, and could be 
relevant to future law enforcement de-
cisions. In addition, because many of 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00393 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR384 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.97 
these records come from courts and 
other state and local criminal justice 
agencies, it is administratively impos-
sible for them and the BOP to ensure 
compliance with this provision. The re-
strictions of subsection (e)(5) would re-
strict and delay trained correctional 
managers from timely exercising their 
judgment in managing the inmate pop-
ulation and providing for the safety 
and security of the prisons and the 
public. 
(10) From subsection (e)(8), because 
to require individual notice of disclo-
sure of information due to a compul-
sory legal process would pose an impos-
sible administrative burden on BOP 
and may alert subjects of investiga-
tions, who might otherwise be un-
aware, to the fact of those investiga-
tions. 
(11) From subsection (f) to the extent 
that this system is exempt from the 
provisions of subsection (d). 
(12) From subsection (g) to the extent 
that this system is exempted from 
other provisions of the Act. 
(l) The following system of records is 
exempted pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) 
from subsections (e)(1) and (e)(5): Bu-
reau of Prisons Inmate Trust Fund Ac-
counts and Commissary Record Sys-
tem, (Justice/BOP–006). 
(m) These exemptions apply only to 
the extent that information in this sys-
tem is subject to exemption pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j). Where compliance 
would not appear to interfere with or 
adversely affect the law enforcement 
process, and/or where it may be appro-
priate to permit individuals to contest 
the accuracy of the information col-
lected, e.g. public source materials, or 
those supplied by third parties, the ap-
plicable exemption may be waived, ei-
ther partially or totally, by the Bu-
reau. Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (e)(1) to the ex-
tent that the Bureau may collect infor-
mation that may be relevant to the law 
enforcement operations of other agen-
cies. In the interests of overall, effec-
tive law enforcement, such information 
should be retained and made available 
to those agencies with relevant respon-
sibilities. 
(2) From subsection (e)(5) because in 
the collection and maintenance of in-
formation for law enforcement pur-
poses, it is impossible to determine in 
advance what information is accurate, 
relevant, timely and complete. Data 
which may seem unrelated, irrelevant 
or incomplete when collected may take 
on added meaning or significance as an 
investigation progresses or with the 
passage of time, and could be relevant 
to future law enforcement decisions. In 
addition, amendment of the records 
may interfere with law enforcement 
operations and would impose an impos-
sible administrative burden by requir-
ing that law enforcement information 
be continuously reexamined, even 
where the information may have been 
collected from the record subject or 
other criminal justice agencies. The re-
strictions of subsection (e)(5) would re-
strict and delay trained correctional 
managers from timely exercising their 
judgment in managing the inmate pop-
ulation and providing for the safety 
and security of the prisons and the 
public. 
(n) The following system of records is 
exempted pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) 
from subsections (e)(1) and (e)(5): Bu-
reau of Prisons Inmate Physical and 
Mental Health Records System, (Jus-
tice/BOP–007). 
(o) These exemptions apply only to 
the extent that information in this sys-
tem is subject to exemption pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j). Where compliance 
would not appear to interfere with or 
adversely affect the law enforcement 
process, and/or where it may be appro-
priate to permit individuals to contest 
the accuracy of the information col-
lected, e.g. public source materials, or 
those supplied by third parties, the ap-
plicable exemption may be waived, ei-
ther partially or totally, by the Bu-
reau. Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (e)(1) to the ex-
tent that the Bureau may collect infor-
mation that may be relevant to the law 
enforcement operations of other agen-
cies. In the interests of overall, effec-
tive law enforcement, such information 
should be retained and made available 
to those agencies with relevant respon-
sibilities. 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00394 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR385 
Department of Justice § 16.97 
(2) From subsection (e)(5) because in 
the collection and maintenance of in-
formation for law enforcement pur-
poses, it is impossible to determine in 
advance what information is accurate, 
relevant, timely and complete. Data 
which may seem unrelated, irrelevant 
or incomplete when collected may take 
on added meaning or significance dur-
ing the course of an investigation or 
with the passage of time, and could be 
relevant to future law enforcement de-
cisions. In addition, because many of 
these records come from sources out-
side the Bureau of Prisons, it is admin-
istratively impossible for them and the 
Bureau to ensure compliance with this 
provision. The restrictions of sub-
section (e)(5) would restrict and delay 
trained correctional managers from 
timely exercising their judgment in 
managing the inmate population and 
providing for the health care of the in-
mates and the safety and security of 
the prisons and the public. 
(p) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a (c)(3) and (4), 
(d)(1)–(4), (e)(2) and (3), (e)(5), and (g): 
Inmate Electronic Message Record 
System (JUSTICE /BOP–013). 
(q) These exemptions apply only to 
the extent that information in this sys-
tem is subject to exemption pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 552a (j)(2) and/or (k)(2). 
Where compliance would not appear to 
interfere with or adversely affect the 
law enforcement process, and/or where 
it may be appropriate to permit indi-
viduals to contest the accuracy of the 
information collected, the applicable 
exemption may be waived, either par-
tially or totally, by the BOP. Exemp-
tions from the particular subsections 
are justified for the following reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) to the ex-
tent that this system of records is ex-
empt from subsection (d), and for such 
reasons as those cited for subsection 
(d) in paragraph (q)(3) below. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) to the ex-
tent that exemption from subsection 
(d) makes this exemption inapplicable. 
(3) From the access provisions of sub-
section (d) because exemption from 
this subsection is essential to prevent 
access of information by record sub-
jects that may invade third party pri-
vacy; frustrate the investigative proc-
ess; jeopardize the legitimate correc-
tional interests of safety, security and 
good order to prison facilities; or oth-
erwise compromise, impede, or inter-
fere with BOP or other law enforce-
ment agency activities. 
(4) From the amendment provisions 
of subsection (d) because amendment of 
the records may interfere with law en-
forcement operations and would impose 
an impossible administrative burden by 
requiring that, in addition to efforts to 
ensure accuracy so as to withstand pos-
sible judicial scrutiny, it would require 
that law enforcement information be 
continuously reexamined, even where 
the information may have been col-
lected from the record subject. Also, 
some of these records come from other 
Federal criminal justice agencies or 
State, local and foreign jurisdictions, 
or from Federal and State probation 
and judicial offices, and it is adminis-
tratively impossible to ensure that 
records comply with this provision. 
(5) From subsection (e)(2) because the 
nature of criminal and other investiga-
tive activities is such that vital infor-
mation about an individual can be ob-
tained from other persons who are fa-
miliar with such individual and his/her 
activities. In such investigations it is 
not feasible to rely solely upon infor-
mation furnished by the individual 
concerning his/her own activities since 
it may result in inaccurate informa-
tion and compromise ongoing criminal 
investigations or correctional manage-
ment decisions. 
(6) From subsection (e)(3) because in 
view of BOP’s operational responsibil-
ities, application of this provision to 
the collection of information is inap-
propriate. Application of this provision 
could provide the subject with substan-
tial information which may in fact im-
pede the information gathering process 
or compromise ongoing criminal inves-
tigations or correctional management 
decisions. 
(7) From subsection (e)(5) because in 
the collection and maintenance of in-
formation for law enforcement pur-
poses, it is impossible to determine in 
advance what information is accurate, 
relevant, timely and complete. Mate-
rial which may seem unrelated, irrele-
vant or incomplete when collected may 
take on added meaning or significance 
at a later date or as an investigation 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00395 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR386 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.98 
progresses. Also, some of these records 
may come from other Federal, State, 
local and foreign law enforcement 
agencies, and from Federal and State 
probation and judicial offices and it is 
administratively impossible to ensure 
that the records comply with this pro-
vision. It would also require that law 
enforcement information be continu-
ously reexamined even where the infor-
mation may have been collected from 
the record subject. 
(8) From subsection (g) to the extent 
that this system is exempted from 
other provisions of the Act. 
[Order No. 645–76, 41 FR 12640, Mar. 26, 1976] 
EDITORIAL NOTE: For FEDERAL REGISTER ci-
tations affecting § 16.97, see the List of CFR 
Sections Affected, which appears in the 
Finding Aids section of the printed volume 
and at www.govinfo.gov. 
§ 16.98 Exemption of the Drug Enforce-
ment Administration (DEA) Sys-
tems—limited access. 
(a) The following systems of records 
are exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and 
(d): 
(1) Automated Records and Con-
summated Orders System/Diversion 
Analysis and Detection System 
(ARCOS/DADS) (Justice/DEA–003) 
(2) Controlled Substances Act Reg-
istration Records (Justice/DEA–005) 
(3) Registration Status/Investigatory 
Records (Justice/DEA–012) 
(b) These exemptions apply only to 
the extent that information in these 
systems is subject to exemption pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). Exemptions 
from the particular subsections are jus-
tified for the following reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because re-
lease of the disclosure accounting 
would enable the subject of an inves-
tigation to gain valuable information 
concerning the nature and scope of the 
investigation and seriously hamper the 
regulatory functions of the DEA. 
(2) From subsection (d) because ac-
cess to records contained in these sys-
tems may provide the subject of an in-
vestigation information that could en-
able him to avoid compliance with the 
Drug Abuse Prevention and Control 
Act of 1970 (Pub. L. 91–513). 
(c) Systems of records identified in 
paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this 
section are exempted pursuant to the 
provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a (j)(2) from 
subsections (c)(3) and (4); (d)(1), (2), (3), 
and (4); (e)(1), (2), (3), (5), and (8); and 
(g) of 5 U.S.C. 552a. In addition, sys-
tems of records identified in para-
graphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section 
are also exempted pursuant to the pro-
visions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1) from sub-
sections (c)(3); (d)(1), (2), (3) and (4); and 
(e)(1): 
(1) Air Intelligence Program (Justice/ 
DEA–001). 
(2) Clandestine Laboratory Seizure 
System (CLSS) (Justice/DEA–002). 
(3) Planning and Inspection Division 
Records (Justice/DEA–010). 
(4) Operation Files (Justice/DEA–011). 
(5) Security Files (Justice/DEA–013). 
(6) System to Retrieve Information 
from Drug Evidence (STRIDE/Ballis-
tics) (Justice/DEA–014). 
(d) Exemptions apply to the following 
systems of records only to the extent 
that information in the systems is sub-
ject to exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
552a(j)(2), (k)(1), and (k)(2): Air Intel-
ligence Program (Justice/DEA–001); 
Clandestine Laboratory Seizure Sys-
tem (CLSS) (Justice/DEA–002); Plan-
ning and Inspection Division Records 
(Justice/DEA–010); and Security Files 
(Justice/DEA–013). Exemptions apply to 
the Operations Files (Justice/DEA–011) 
only to the extent that information in 
the system is subject to exemption pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) and (k)(2). 
Exemptions apply to the System to Re-
trieve Information from Drug Evidence 
(STRIDE/Ballistics) (Justice/DEA–014) 
only to the extent that information in 
the system is subject to exemption pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2). Exemption 
from the particular subsections is jus-
tified for the following reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because re-
lease of disclosure accounting would 
provide to the subjects of an investiga-
tion significant information con-
cerning the nature of the investigation 
and thus would present the same im-
pediments to law enforcement as those 
enumerated in paragraph (d)(3) regard-
ing exemption from subsection (d). 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) to the ex-
tent that it is not applicable because 
an exemption is being claimed from 
subsection (d). 
(3) From the access provisions of sub-
section (d) because access to records in 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00396 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR387 
Department of Justice § 16.98 
this system of records would present a 
serious impediment to law enforce-
ment. Specifically, it could inform the 
record subject of an actual or potential 
criminal, civil, or regulatory investiga-
tion of the existence of that investiga-
tion; of the nature and scope of the in-
formation and evidence obtained as to 
his activities; of the identity of con-
fidential sources, witnesses, and law 
enforcement personnel; and of informa-
tion that may enable the subject to 
avoid detection or apprehension. Simi-
larly, it may alert collateral suspects 
yet unprosecuted in closed cases. It 
could prevent the successful comple-
tion of the investigation; endanger the 
life, health, or physical safety of con-
fidential sources, witnesses, and law 
enforcement personnel, and/or lead to 
the improper influencing of witnesses, 
the destruction of evidence, or the fab-
rication of testimony; or it may simply 
reveal a sensitive investigative tech-
nique. In addition, granting access to 
such information could result in the 
disclosure of confidential/security-sen-
sitive or other information that would 
constitute an unwarranted invasion of 
the personal privacy of third parties. 
Finally, access to the records could re-
sult in the release of properly classified 
information which would compromise 
the national defense or disrupt foreign 
policy. From the amendment provi-
sions of subsection (d) because amend-
ment of the records would interfere 
with ongoing investigations and law 
enforcement activities and impose an 
impossible administrative burden by 
requiring investigations to be continu-
ously reinvestigated. 
(4) From subsection (e)(1) because the 
application of this provision could im-
pair investigations and interfere with 
the law enforcement responsibilities of 
the DEA for the following reasons: 
(i) It is not possible to detect rel-
evance or necessity of specific informa-
tion in the early stages of a civil, 
criminal or other law enforcement in-
vestigation, case, or matter, including 
investigations during which DEA may 
obtain properly classified information. 
Relevance and necessity are questions 
of judgment and timing, and it is only 
after the information is evaluated that 
the relevance and necessity of such in-
formation can be established. 
(ii) During the DEA’s investigative 
activities DEA may detect the viola-
tion of either drug-related or non-drug 
related laws. In the interests of effec-
tive law enforcement, it is necessary 
that DEA retain all information ob-
tained because it can aid in estab-
lishing patterns of activity and provide 
valuable leads for Federal and other 
law enforcement agencies or otherwise 
assist such agencies in discharging 
their law enforcement responsibilities. 
Such information may include properly 
classified information, the retention of 
which could be in the interests of na-
tional defense and/or foreign policy. 
(5) From subsection (e)(2) because, in 
some instances, the application of this 
provision would present a serious im-
pediment to law enforcement for the 
following reasons: 
(i) The subject of an investigation 
would be placed on notice as to the ex-
istence of an investigation and would 
therefore be able to avoid detection or 
apprehension, to improperly influence 
witnesses, to destroy evidence, or to 
fabricate testimony. 
(ii) In certain circumstances the sub-
ject of an investigation cannot be re-
quired to provide information to inves-
tigators, and information relating to a 
subject’s illegal acts must be obtained 
from other sources. 
(iii) In any investigation it is nec-
essary to obtain evidence from a vari-
ety of sources other than the subject of 
the investigation in order to verify the 
evidence necessary for successful pros-
ecution. 
(6) From subsection (e)(3) because the 
requirements thereof would constitute 
a serious impediment to law enforce-
ment in that they could compromise 
the existence of an actual or potential 
confidential investigation and/or per-
mit the record subject to speculate on 
the identity of a potential confidential 
source, and endanger the life, health or 
physical safety or either actual or po-
tential confidential informants and 
witnesses, and of investigators/law en-
forcement personnel. In addition, the 
notification requirement of subsection 
(e)(3) could impede collection of that 
information from the record subject, 
making it necessary to collect the in-
formation solely from third party 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00397 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR388 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.98 
sources and thereby inhibiting law en-
forcement efforts. 
(7) From subsection (e)(5) because in 
the collection of information for law 
enforcement purposes it is impossible 
to determine in advance what informa-
tion is accurate, relevant, timely and 
complete. With the passage of time, 
seemingly irrelevant or untimely infor-
mation may acquire new significance 
as further investigation brings new de-
tails to light and the accuracy of such 
information can only be determined in 
a court of law. The restrictions im-
posed by subsection (e)(5) would re-
strict the ability of trained investiga-
tors and intelligence analysts to exer-
cise their judgment in reporting on in-
vestigations and impede the develop-
ment of criminal intelligence nec-
essary for effective law enforcement. 
(8) From subsection (e)(8) because the 
application of this provision could pre-
maturely reveal an ongoing criminal 
investigation to the subject of the in-
vestigation, and could reveal investiga-
tive techniques, procedures, or evi-
dence. 
(9) From subsection (g) to the extent 
that this system is exempt from the ac-
cess and amendment provisions of sub-
section (d) pursuant to subsections 
(j)(2), (k)(1) and (k)(2) of the Privacy 
Act. 
(e) The following systems of records 
are exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a (d)(1) and 
(e)(1): 
(1) Grants of Confidentiality Files 
(GCF) (Justice/DEA–017), and 
(2) DEA Applicant Investigations 
(Justice/DEA–018). 
(f) These exemptions apply only to 
the extent that information in these 
systems is subject to exception pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5). Exemptions 
from the particular subsections are jus-
tified for the following reasons: 
(1) From subsection (d)(1) because 
many persons are contacted who, with-
out an assurance of anonymity, refuse 
to provide information concerning an 
applicant for a grant of confidentiality 
with DEA. By permitting access to in-
formation which may reveal the iden-
tity of the source of that information— 
after a promise of confidentiality has 
been given—DEA would breach the 
promised confidentiality. Ultimately, 
such breaches would restrict the free 
flow of information which is vital to a 
determination of an applicant’s quali-
fications for a grant. 
(2) From subsection (e)(1) because in 
the collection of information for inves-
tigative and evaluation purposes, it is 
impossible to determine in advance 
what exact information may be of as-
sistance in determining the qualifica-
tions and suitability of a candidate. In-
formation which may appear irrele-
vant, when combined with other appar-
ently irrelevant information, can on 
occasion provide a composite picture of 
an applicant which assists in deter-
mining whether a grant of confiden-
tiality is warranted. 
(g) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a (c)(3) and (4); 
(d)(1), (2), (3), and (4); (e)(1), (2), (3), (5), 
and (8); and (g): El Paso Intelligence 
Center (EPIC) Seizure System (ESS) 
(JUSTICE/DEA–022). These exemptions 
apply only to the extent that informa-
tion in this system is subject to exemp-
tion pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a (j)(2), 
(k)(1), and (k)(2). Where compliance 
would not appear to interfere with or 
adversely affect the law enforcement 
and counter-drug purposes of this sys-
tem, and the overall law enforcement 
process, the applicable exemption may 
be waived by the DEA in its sole discre-
tion. 
(h) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because 
making available to a record subject 
the accounting of disclosures from 
records concerning him/her would po-
tentially reveal any investigative in-
terest in the individual. Revealing this 
information would permit the subject 
of an investigation of an actual or po-
tential criminal, civil, or regulatory 
violation to determine whether he is 
the subject of investigation, or to ob-
tain valuable information concerning 
the nature of that investigation, and 
the information obtained, or the iden-
tity of witnesses and informants. Simi-
larly, disclosing this information could 
reasonably be expected to compromise 
ongoing investigatory efforts by noti-
fying the record subject that he/she is 
under investigation. This information 
could also permit the record subject to 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00398 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR389 
Department of Justice § 16.98 
take measures to impede the investiga-
tion, e.g., destroy evidence, intimidate 
potential witnesses, or flee the area to 
avoid or impede the investigation. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) because 
this system is exempt from the access 
and amendment provisions of sub-
section (d). 
(3) From subsections (d)(1), (2), (3), 
and (4) because these provisions con-
cern individual access to and amend-
ment of records contained in this sys-
tem, which consists of counter-drug 
and criminal investigatory records. 
Compliance with these provisions could 
alert the subject of an investigation of 
an actual or potential criminal, civil, 
or regulatory violation of the existence 
of that investigation, of the nature and 
scope of the information and evidence 
obtained as to his activities, of the 
identity of witnesses and informants, 
or would provide information that 
could enable the subject to avoid detec-
tion or apprehension. These factors 
would present a serious impediment to 
effective law enforcement because they 
could prevent the successful comple-
tion of the investigation; endanger the 
physical safety of witnesses or inform-
ants; or lead to the improper influ-
encing of witnesses, the destruction of 
evidence, or the fabrication of testi-
mony. 
(4) From subsection (e)(1) because it 
is not always possible to know in ad-
vance what information is relevant and 
necessary to complete an identity com-
parison between the individual being 
screened and a known or suspected 
criminal or terrorist. Also, it may not 
always be known what information will 
be relevant to law enforcement for the 
purpose of conducting an operational 
response or on-going investigation. 
(5) From subsection (e)(2) because ap-
plication of this provision could 
present a serious impediment to law 
enforcement and counter-drug efforts 
in that it would put the subject of an 
investigation, study or analysis on no-
tice of that fact, thereby permitting 
the subject to engage in conduct de-
signed to frustrate or impede that ac-
tivity. The nature of counter-drug in-
vestigations is such that vital informa-
tion about an individual frequently can 
be obtained only from other persons 
who are familiar with such individual 
and his/her activities. In such inves-
tigations it is not feasible to rely upon 
information furnished by the indi-
vidual concerning his own activities. 
(6) From subsection (e)(3) because the 
requirements thereof would constitute 
a serious impediment to law enforce-
ment in that they could compromise 
the existence of an actual or potential 
confidential investigation and/or per-
mit the record subject to speculate on 
the identity of a potential confidential 
source, and endanger the life, health or 
physical safety of either actual or po-
tential confidential informants and 
witnesses, and of investigators/law en-
forcement personnel. In addition, the 
notification requirement of subsection 
(e)(3) could impede collection of that 
information from the record subject, 
making it necessary to collect the in-
formation solely from third party 
sources and thereby inhibiting law en-
forcement efforts. 
(7) From subsection (e)(5) because 
many of the records in this system are 
derived from other domestic record 
systems and therefore it is not possible 
for the DEA and EPIC to vouch for 
their compliance with this provision. 
In addition, EPIC supports but does not 
conduct investigations; therefore, it 
must be able to collect information re-
lated to illegal drug and other criminal 
activities and encounters for distribu-
tion to law enforcement and intel-
ligence agencies that do conduct 
counter-drug investigations. In the col-
lection of information for law enforce-
ment and counter-drug purposes, it is 
impossible to determine in advance 
what information is accurate, relevant, 
timely, and complete. With the passage 
of time, seemingly irrelevant or un-
timely information may acquire new 
significance as further investigation 
brings new details to light. The restric-
tions imposed by (e)(5) would limit the 
ability of those agencies’ trained inves-
tigators and intelligence analysts to 
exercise their judgment in conducting 
investigations and impede the develop-
ment of intelligence necessary for ef-
fective law enforcement and counter-
terrorism efforts. EPIC has, however, 
implemented internal quality assur-
ance procedures to ensure that ESS 
data is as thorough, accurate, and cur-
rent as possible. ESS is also exempt 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00399 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR390 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.98 
from the requirements of subsection 
(e)(5) in order to prevent the use of a 
challenge under subsection (e)(5) as a 
collateral means to obtain access to 
records in the ESS. ESS records are ex-
empt from the access and amendment 
requirements of subsection (d) of the 
Privacy Act in order to protect the in-
tegrity of investigations. Exempting 
ESS from subsection (e)(5) serves to 
prevent the assertion of challenges to a 
record’s accuracy, timeliness, com-
pleteness, and/or relevance under sub-
section (e)(5) to circumvent the exemp-
tion claimed from subsection (d). 
(8) From subsection (e)(8) because to 
require individual notice of disclosure 
of information due to compulsory legal 
process would pose an impossible ad-
ministrative burden on the DEA and 
EPIC and could alert the subjects of 
counter-drug, counterterrorism, law 
enforcement, or intelligence investiga-
tions to the fact of those investigations 
when not previously known. Addition-
ally, compliance could present a seri-
ous impediment to law enforcement as 
this could interfere with the ability to 
issue warrants or subpoenas and could 
reveal investigative techniques, proce-
dures, or evidence. 
(9) From subsection (g) to the extent 
that the system is exempt from other 
specific subsections of the Privacy Act. 
(i) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a (c)(3) and (4); 
(d)(1), (2), (3), and (4); (e)(1), (2), (3), 
(4)(G), (H), (I), (5), and (8); (f); (g); and 
(h): Investigative Reporting and Filing 
System (IRFS) (JUSTICE/DEA–008). 
These exemptions apply only to the ex-
tent that information in this system is 
subject to exemption pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552a (j)(2), (k)(1), or (k)(2). Where 
compliance would not appear to inter-
fere with or adversely affect the law 
enforcement or counterterrorism pur-
poses of this system, or the overall law 
enforcement process, the applicable ex-
emption may be waived by the DEA in 
its sole discretion. 
(j) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because to 
provide a record subject with an ac-
counting of disclosure of records in this 
system could impede or compromise an 
ongoing investigation, interfere with a 
law enforcement activity, lead to the 
disclosure of properly classified infor-
mation which could compromise the 
national defense or disrupt foreign pol-
icy, invade the privacy of a person who 
provides information in connection 
with a particular investigation, or re-
sult in danger to an individual’s safety, 
including the safety of a law enforce-
ment officer. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) because 
this subsection is inapplicable to the 
extent that an exemption is being 
claimed for subsections (d)(1), (2), (3), 
and (4). 
(3) From subsection (d)(1) because 
disclosure of records in the system 
could alert the subject of an investiga-
tion of an actual or potential criminal, 
civil, or regulatory violation of the ex-
istence of that investigation, of the na-
ture and scope of the information and 
evidence obtained as to his activities, 
of the identity of confidential wit-
nesses and informants, or of the inves-
tigative interest of the DEA; lead to 
the destruction of evidence, improper 
influencing of witnesses, fabrication of 
testimony, and/or flight of the subject; 
reveal the details of a sensitive inves-
tigative or intelligence technique, or 
the identity of a confidential source; or 
otherwise impede, compromise, or 
interfere with investigative efforts and 
other related law enforcement and/or 
intelligence activities. In addition, dis-
closure could invade the privacy of 
third parties and/or endanger the life, 
health, and physical safety of law en-
forcement personnel, confidential in-
formants, witnesses, and potential 
crime victims. Access to records could 
also result in the release of informa-
tion properly classified pursuant to Ex-
ecutive order, thereby compromising 
the national defense or foreign policy. 
(4) From subsection (d)(2) because 
amendment of the records thought to 
be incorrect, irrelevant, or untimely 
would also interfere with ongoing in-
vestigations, criminal or civil law en-
forcement proceedings, and other law 
enforcement activities; would impose 
an impossible administrative burden by 
requiring investigations, analyses, and 
reports to be continuously reinves-
tigated and revised; and may impact 
information properly classified pursu-
ant to Executive order. 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00400 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR391 
Department of Justice § 16.98 
(5) From subsections (d)(3) and (4) be-
cause these subsections are inappli-
cable to the extent exemption is 
claimed from (d)(1) and (2). 
(6) From subsection (e)(1) because, in 
the course of its acquisition, collation, 
and analysis of information under the 
statutory authority granted to it, an 
agency may occasionally obtain infor-
mation, including information properly 
classified pursuant to Executive order, 
that concerns actual or potential viola-
tions of law that are not strictly with-
in its statutory or other authority, or 
may compile information in the course 
of an investigation which may not be 
relevant to a specific prosecution. It is 
impossible to determine in advance 
what information collected during an 
investigation will be important or cru-
cial to the investigation and the appre-
hension of fugitives. In the interests of 
effective law enforcement, it is nec-
essary to retain such information in 
this system of records because it can 
aid in establishing patterns of criminal 
activity and can provide valuable leads 
for federal and other law enforcement 
agencies. This consideration applies 
equally to information acquired from, 
or collated or analyzed for, both law 
enforcement agencies and agencies of 
the U.S. foreign intelligence commu-
nity and military community. 
(7) From subsection (e)(2) because in 
a criminal investigation, prosecution, 
or proceeding, the requirement that in-
formation be collected to the greatest 
extent practicable from the subject in-
dividual would present a serious im-
pediment to law enforcement because 
the subject of the investigation, pros-
ecution, or proceeding would be placed 
on notice as to the existence and na-
ture of the investigation, prosecution, 
and proceeding and would therefore be 
able to avoid detection or apprehen-
sion, to influence witnesses improp-
erly, to destroy evidence, or to fab-
ricate testimony. Moreover, thorough 
and effective investigation and pros-
ecution may require seeking informa-
tion from a number of different 
sources. 
(8) From subsection (e)(3) because the 
requirement that individuals supplying 
information be provided a form stating 
the requirements of subsection (e)(3) 
would constitute a serious impediment 
to criminal law enforcement in that it 
could compromise the existence of a 
confidential investigation or reveal the 
identity of witnesses or confidential in-
formants and endanger their lives, 
health, and physical safety. The indi-
vidual could seriously interfere with 
undercover investigative techniques 
and could take appropriate steps to 
evade the investigation or flee a spe-
cific area. 
(9) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) 
because this system is exempt from the 
access provisions of subsection (d) pur-
suant to subsections (j) and (k) of the 
Privacy Act, and from subsection 
(e)(4)(I) to preclude any claims that the 
Department must provide more detail 
regarding the record sources for this 
system than the Department publishes 
in the system of records notice for this 
system. Exemption from providing any 
additional details about sources is nec-
essary to preserve the security of sen-
sitive law enforcement and intelligence 
information and to protect the privacy 
and safety of witnesses and informants 
and others who provide information to 
the DEA; and further, greater speci-
ficity of properly classified records 
could compromise national security. 
(10) From subsection (e)(5) because 
the acquisition, collation, and analysis 
of information for criminal law en-
forcement purposes from various agen-
cies does not permit a determination in 
advance or a prediction of what infor-
mation will be matched with other in-
formation and thus whether it is accu-
rate, relevant, timely, and complete. 
With the passage of time, seemingly ir-
relevant or untimely information may 
acquire new significance as further in-
vestigation brings new details to light 
and the accuracy of such information 
can often only be determined in a court 
of law. The restrictions imposed by 
subsection (e)(5) would restrict the 
ability of trained investigators, intel-
ligence analysts, and government at-
torneys to exercise their judgment in 
collating and analyzing information 
and would impede the development of 
criminal or other intelligence nec-
essary for effective law enforcement. 
(11) From subsection (e)(8) because 
the individual notice requirements of 
subsection (e)(8) could present a serious 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00401 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR392 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.99 
impediment to criminal law enforce-
ment by revealing investigative tech-
niques, procedures, evidence, or inter-
est, and by interfering with the ability 
to issue warrants or subpoenas; could 
give persons sufficient warning to 
evade investigative efforts; and would 
pose an impossible administrative bur-
den on the maintenance of these 
records and the conduct of the under-
lying investigations. 
(12) From subsections (f) and (g) be-
cause these subsections are inappli-
cable to the extent that the system is 
exempt from other specific subsections 
of the Privacy Act. 
(13) From subsection (h) when appli-
cation of this provision could impede 
or compromise an ongoing criminal in-
vestigation, interfere with a law en-
forcement activity, reveal an inves-
tigatory technique or confidential 
source, invade the privacy of a person 
who provides information for an inves-
tigation, or endanger law enforcement 
personnel. 
[Order No. 88–94, 59 FR 29717, June 9, 1994, as 
amended by Order No. 127–97, 62 FR 2903, Jan. 
21, 1997; Order No. 009–2003, 68 FR 14140, Mar. 
24, 2003; 72 FR 54825, Sept. 27, 2007; CPCLO 
Order No. 002–2013, 78 FR 14672, Mar. 7, 2013] 
§ 16.99 Exemption of the Immigration 
and Naturalization Service Sys-
tems-limited access. 
(a) The following systems of records 
of the Immigration and Naturalization 
Service are exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a 
(c) (3) and (4), (d), (e) (1), (2) and (3), (e) 
(4)(G) and (H), (e) (5) and (8), and (g): 
(1) The Immigration and Naturaliza-
tion Service Alien File (A-File) and 
Central Index System (CIS), JUSTICE/ 
INS–001A. 
(2) The Immigration and Naturaliza-
tion Service Index System, JUSTICE/ 
INS–001 which consists of the following 
subsystems: 
(i) Agency Information Control 
Record Index. 
(ii) Alien Enemy Index. 
(iii) Congressional Mail Unit Index. 
(iv) Air Detail Office Index. 
(v) Anti-smuggling Index (general). 
(vi) Anti-smuggling Information Cen-
ters Systems for Canadian and Mexican 
Borders. 
(vii) Border Patrol Sectors General 
Index System. 
(viii) Contact Index. 
(ix) Criminal, Narcotic, Racketeer 
and Subversive Indexes. 
(x) Enforcement Correspondence Con-
trol Index System. 
(xi) Document Vendors and Alterers 
Index. 
(xii) Informant Index. 
(xiii) Suspect Third Party Index. 
(xiv) Examination Correspondence 
Control Index. 
(xv) Extension Training Enrollee 
Index. 
(xvi) Intelligence Index. 
(xvii) Naturalization and Citizenship 
Indexes. 
(xviii) Personnel Investigations Unit 
Indexes. 
(xix) Service Look-Out Subsystem. 
(xx) White House and Attorney Gen-
eral Correspondence Control Index. 
(xxi) Fraudulent Document Center 
Index. 
(xxii) Emergency Reassignment 
Index. 
(xxiii) Alien Documentation, Identi-
fication, and Telecommunication 
(ADIT) System. 
The exemptions apply to the extent 
that information in these subsystems 
is subject to exemption pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552a (j)(2) and (k)(2). 
(3) The Immigration and Naturaliza-
tion Service ‘‘National Automated Im-
migration Lookout System (NAILS) 
JUSTICE/INS–032.’’ The exemptions 
apply only to the extent that records 
in the system are subject to exemp-
tions pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) and 
(k)(2). 
(b) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because the 
release of the disclosure accounting for 
disclosure pursuant to the routine uses 
published for these subsystems would 
permit the subject of a criminal or 
civil investigation to obtain valuable 
information concerning the nature of 
that investigation and present a seri-
ous impediment to law enforcement. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) since an ex-
emption is being claimed for sub-
section (d), this subsection will not be 
applicable. 
(3) From subsection (d) because ac-
cess to the records contained in these 
subsystems would inform the subject of 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00402 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR393 
Department of Justice § 16.99 
a criminal or civil investigation of the 
existence of that investigation, provide 
the subject of the investigation with 
information that might enable him to 
avoid detection or apprehension, and 
present a serious impediment to law 
enforcement. 
(4) From subsection (e)(1) because in 
the course of criminal or civil inves-
tigations, the Immigration and Natu-
ralization Service often obtains infor-
mation concerning the violation of 
laws other than those relating to viola-
tions over which INS has investigative 
jurisdiction. In the interests of effec-
tive law enforcement, it is necessary 
that INS retain this information since 
it can aid in establishing patterns of 
criminal activity and provide valuable 
leads for those law enforcement agen-
cies that are charged with enforcing 
other segments of the criminal law. 
(5) From subsection (e)(2) because in 
a criminal or civil investigation, the 
requirement that information be col-
lected to the greatest extent possible 
from the subject individual would 
present a serious impediment to law 
enforcement in that the subject of the 
investigation would be placed on notice 
of the existence of the investigation 
and would therefore be able to avoid 
detection or apprehension. 
(6) From subsection (e)(3) because the 
requirement that individuals supplying 
information be provided with a form 
stating the requirements of subsection 
(e)(3) would constitute a serious im-
pediment to law enforcement in that it 
could compromise the existence of a 
confidential investigation, reveal the 
identity of confidential sources of in-
formation and endanger the life or 
physical safety of confidential inform-
ants. 
(7) From subsections (e)(4) (G) and 
(H) because these subsystems of 
records are exempt from individual ac-
cess pursuant to subsection (j) of the 
Privacy Act of 1974. 
(8) From subsection (e)(5) because in 
the collection of information for law 
enforcement purposes it is impossible 
to determine in advance what informa-
tion is accurate, relevant, timely, and 
complete. With the passage of time, 
seemingly irrelevant or untimely infor-
mation may acquire new significance 
as further investigation brings new de-
tails to light and the accuracy of such 
information can only be determined in 
a court of law. The restrictions of sub-
section (e)(5) would restrict the ability 
of trained investigators and intel-
ligence analysts to exercise their judg-
ment in reporting on investigations 
and impede the development of crimi-
nal intelligence necessary for effective 
law enforcement. 
(9) From subsection (e)(8) because the 
individual notice requirements of sub-
section (e)(8) could present a serious 
impediment to law enforcement as this 
could interfere with the Immigration 
and Naturalization Service’s ability to 
issue administrative subpoenas and 
could reveal investigative techniques 
and procedures. 
(10) From subsection (g) because 
these subsystems of records are com-
piled for law enforcement purposes and 
have been exempted from the access 
provisions of subsections (d) and (f). 
(11) In addition, these systems of 
records are exempt from subsections 
(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4) (G) and (H) to the 
extent they are subject to exemption 
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1). To per-
mit access to records classified pursu-
ant to Executive Order would violate 
the Executive Order protecting classi-
fied information. 
(c) The Border Patrol Academy Index 
Subsystem is exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a 
(d) and (f). 
This exemption applies only to the ex-
tent that information in this sub-
system is subject to exemption pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k). 
(d) Exemptions for the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons. 
(1) From subsection (d) because ex-
emption is claimed only for those test-
ing and examination materials used to 
determine an individual’s qualifica-
tions for retention and promotion in 
the Immigration and Naturalization 
Service. This is necessary to protect 
the integrity of testing materials and 
to insure fair and uniform examina-
tions. 
(2) From subsection (f) because the 
subsystem of records has been exempt-
ed from the access provisions of sub-
section (d). 
(e) The Orphan Petitioner Index and 
Files (Justice/INS–007) system of 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00403 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR394 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.99 
records is exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(d). 
This exemption applies only to the ex-
tent that information in this system is 
subject to exemption pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552a(k)(1). 
(f) Exemption from paragraph (d) of 
this section is claimed solely because 
of the possibility of receipt of classified 
information during the course of INS 
investigation of prospective adoptive 
parents. 
Although it would be rare, prospective 
adoptive parents may originally be 
from foreign countries (for example) 
and information received on them from 
their native countries may require 
classification under Executive Order 
12356 which safeguards national secu-
rity information. If such information is 
relevant to the INS determination with 
respect to adoption, the information 
would be kept in the file and would be 
classified accordingly. Therefore, ac-
cess could not be granted to the record 
subject under the Privacy Act without 
violating E.O. 12356. 
(g) The Office of Internal Audit In-
vestigations Index and Records (Jus-
tice/INS–002) system of records is ex-
empt under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 
552a(j)(2) from subsections (c)(3) and 
(4); (d); (e)(1), (2), (3), (5) and (8); and 
(g), but only to the extent that this 
system contains records within the 
scope of subsection (j)(2), and to the ex-
tent that records in the system are 
subject to exemption therefrom. In ad-
dition, this system of records is also 
exempt under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 
552a(k)(2) from subsections (c)(3); (d); 
and (e)(1), but only to the extent that 
this system contains records within 
the scope of subsection (k)(2), and to 
the extent that records in the system 
are subject to exemption therefrom. 
(h) The following justification apply 
to the exemptions from particular sub-
sections: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because the 
release of the disclosure accounting for 
disclosure could permit the subject of 
an actual or potential criminal or civil 
investigation to obtain valuable infor-
mation concerning the existence and 
nature of the investigation, the fact 
that individuals are subjects of the in-
vestigation, and present a serious im-
pediment to law enforcement. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) to the ex-
tent that the exemption from sub-
section (d) is applicable. Subsection 
(c)(4) will not be applicable to the ex-
tent that records in the system are 
properly withholdable under subsection 
(d). 
(3) From the access and amendment 
provisions of subsection (d) because ac-
cess to the records contained in this 
system of records could inform the sub-
ject of a criminal or civil investigation 
of the existence of that investigation; 
of the nature and scope of the informa-
tion and evidence obtained as to their 
activities; of the identity of confiden-
tial sources, witnesses and law enforce-
ment personnel; and of information 
that may enable the subject to avoid 
detection or apprehension. Such disclo-
sures would present a serious impedi-
ment to effective law enforcement 
where they prevent the successful com-
pletion of the investigation; endanger 
the physical safety of confidential 
sources, witnesses, and law enforce-
ment personnel; and/or lead to the im-
proper influencing of witnesses, the de-
struction of evidence, or the fabrica-
tion of testimony. In addition, grant-
ing access to these records could result 
in a disclosure that would constitute 
an unwarranted invasion of the privacy 
of third parties. Amendment of the 
records would interfere with ongoing 
investigations and law enforcement ac-
tivities and impose an impossible ad-
ministrative burden by requiring inves-
tigations to be continuously reinves-
tigated. 
(4) From subsection (e)(1) because in 
the course of criminal or civil inves-
tigations, the Immigration and Natu-
ralization Service often obtains infor-
mation concerning the violation of 
laws other than those relating to viola-
tions over which INS has investigative 
jurisdiction, in the interests of effec-
tive law enforcement, it is necessary 
that INS retain this information since 
it can aid in establishing patterns of 
criminal activity and provide valuable 
leads for those law enforcement agen-
cies that are charged with enforcing 
other segments of the criminal law. 
(5) From subsection (e)(2) because in 
a criminal investigation, the require-
ment that information be collected to 
the greatest extent possible from the 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00404 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR395 
Department of Justice § 16.99 
subject individual would present a seri-
ous impediment to law enforcement in 
that the subject of the investigation 
would be placed on notice of the exist-
ence of the investigation and would 
therefore be able to avoid detection or 
apprehension. 
(6) From subsection (e)(3) because the 
requirement that individuals supplying 
information be provided with a form 
stating the requirements of subsection 
(e)(3) would constitute a serious im-
pediment of criminal law enforcement 
in that it could compromise the exist-
ence of a confidential investigation, re-
veal the identify of confidential 
sources of information and endanger 
the life or physical safety of confiden-
tial informants. 
(7) From subsection (e)(5) because in 
the collection of information for crimi-
nal law enforcement purposes it is im-
possible to determine in advance what 
information is accurate, relevant, 
timely, and complete. With the passage 
of time, seemingly irrelevant or un-
timely information may acquire new 
significance as further investigation 
brings new details to light and the ac-
curacy of such information can only be 
determined in a court of law. The re-
strictions of subsection (e)(5) would re-
strict the ability of trained investiga-
tors and intelligence analysts to exer-
cise their judgment in reporting on in-
vestigations and impede the develop-
ment of criminal intelligence nec-
essary for effective law enforcement. 
(8) From subsection (e)(8) because the 
individual notice requirements of sub-
section (e)(8) could present a serious 
impediment to criminal law enforce-
ment as this could interfere with the 
Immigration and Naturalization Serv-
ice’s ability to issue administrative 
subpoenas and could reveal investiga-
tive techniques and procedures. 
(9) From subsection (g) for those por-
tions of this system of records that 
were compiled for criminal law en-
forcement purposes and which are sub-
ject to exemption from the access pro-
visions of subsections (d) pursuant to 
subsection (j)(2). 
(i) The Law Enforcement Support 
Center Database (LESC) (Justice/INS– 
023) system of records is exempt under 
the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) 
from subsections (c) (3) and (4); (d); (e) 
(1), (2), (3), (5), (8) and (g); but only to 
the extent that this system contains 
records within the scope of subsection 
(j)(2), and to the extent that records in 
the system are subject to exemption 
therefrom. In addition, this system of 
records is also exempt in part under 
the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) 
from subsections (c)(3); (d); and (e)(1), 
but only to the extent that this system 
contains records within the scope of 
subsection (k)(2), and to the extent 
that records in the system are subject 
to exemption therefrom. 
(j) The following justifications apply 
to the exemptions from particular sub-
sections: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) for reasons 
stated in paragraph (h)(1) of this sec-
tion. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) for reasons 
stated in paragraph (h)(2) of this sec-
tion. 
(3) From the access and amendment 
provisions of subsection (d) because ac-
cess to the records contained in this 
system of records could inform the sub-
ject of a criminal or civil investigation 
of the existence of that investigation; 
of the nature and scope of the informa-
tion and evidence obtained as to their 
activities; and of information that may 
enable the subject to avoid detection or 
apprehension. Such disclosures would 
present a serious impediment to effec-
tive law enforcement where they pre-
vent the successful completion of the 
investigation or other law enforcement 
operation such as deportation or exclu-
sion. In addition, granting access to 
these records could result in a disclo-
sure that would constitute an unwar-
ranted invasion of the privacy of third 
parties. Amendment of the records 
would interfere with ongoing investiga-
tions and law enforcement activities 
and impose an impossible administra-
tive burden by requiring investigations 
to be continuously reinvestigated. 
(4) From subsection (e)(1) for reasons 
stated in paragraph (h)(4) of this sec-
tion. 
(5) From subsection (e)(2) for reasons 
stated in paragraph (h)(5) of this sec-
tion. 
(6) From subsection (e)(3) because the 
requirement that individuals supplying 
information be provided with a form 
stating the requirements of subsection 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00405 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR396 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.99 
(e)(3) would constitute a serious im-
pediment to criminal law enforcement 
in that it could compromise the exist-
ence of a confidential investigation. 
(7) From subsection (e)(5) for reasons 
stated in paragraph (h)(7) of this sec-
tion. 
(8) From subsection (e)(8) for reasons 
stated in paragraph (h)(8) of this sec-
tion. 
(9) From subsection (g) to the extent 
that this system is exempt from the ac-
cess and amendment provisions of sub-
section (d). 
(k) The Attorney/Representative 
Complaint/Petition File (JUSTICE/ 
INS–022) system of records is exempt 
under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a 
(j)(2) from subsections (c)(3) and (4); (d); 
(e)(1), (2), (3), (5), and (8); and (g); but 
only to the extent that this system 
contains records within the scope of 
subsection (j)(2), and to the extent that 
records in this system are subject to 
exemption therefrom. In addition, this 
system of records is also exempt in 
part under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 
552a (k)(2) from subsections (c)(3); (d); 
and (e)(1), but only to the extent that 
this system contains records within 
the scope of subsection (k)(2), and to 
the extent that records in this system 
are subject to exemption therefrom. 
(l) The following justifications apply 
to the exemptions from particular sub-
sections: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) for reasons 
stated in paragraph (h)(1) of this sec-
tion. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) for reasons 
stated in paragraph (h)(2) of this sec-
tion. 
(3) From the access and amendment 
provisions of subsection (d) for reasons 
stated in paragraph (h)(3) of this sec-
tion. 
(4) From subsection (e)(1) for reasons 
stated in paragraph (h)(4) of this sec-
tion. 
(5) From subsection (e)(2) for reasons 
stated in paragraph (h)(5) of this sec-
tion. 
(6) From subsection (e)(3) for reasons 
stated in paragraph (h)(6) of this sec-
tion. 
(7) From subsection (e)(5) for reasons 
stated in paragraph (h)(7) of this sec-
tion. 
(8) From subsection (e)(8) for reasons 
stated in paragraph (h)(8) of this sec-
tion. 
(9) From subsection (g) to the extent 
that the system is exempt from the ac-
cess and amendment provisions of sub-
section (d). 
(m) The Worksite Enforcement Ac-
tivity and Records Index (LYNX) (JUS-
TICE/INS–025) system of records is ex-
empt under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 
552a (j)(2) from subsections (c)(3) and 
(4); (d); (e)(1), (2), (3), (5), and (8); and 
(g); but only to the extent that this 
system contains records within the 
scope of subsection (j)(2), and to the ex-
tent that records in this system are 
subject to exemption therefrom. In ad-
dition, this system of records is also 
exempt in part under the provisions of 
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) from subsections 
(c)(3); (d); and (e)(1), but only to the ex-
tent that this system contains records 
within the scope of subsection (k)(2), 
and to the extent that records in this 
system are subject to exemption there-
from. 
(n) The following justifications apply 
to the exemptions from particular sub-
sections: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) for reasons 
started in paragraph (h)(1) of this sec-
tion. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) for reasons 
stated in paragraph (h)(2) of this sec-
tion. 
(3) From the access and amendment 
provisions of subsection (d) for reasons 
stated in paragraph (h)(3) of this sec-
tion. 
(4) From subsection (e)(1) for reasons 
stated in paragraph (h)(4) of this sec-
tion. 
(5) From subsection (e)(2) for reasons 
stated in paragraph (h)(5) of this sec-
tion. 
(6) From subsection (e)(3) for reasons 
stated in paragraph (h)(6) of this sec-
tion. 
(7) From subsection (e)(5) for reasons 
stated in paragraph (h)(7) of this sec-
tion. 
(8) From subsection (e)(8) for reasons 
stated in paragraph (h)(8) of this sec-
tion. 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00406 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR397 
Department of Justice § 16.101 
(9) From subsection (g) to the extent 
that the system is exempt from the ac-
cess and amendment provisions of sub-
section (d). 
[Order No. 645–76, 41 FR 12640, Mar. 26, 1976, 
as amended by Order No. 688–77, 42 FR 10001, 
Feb. 18, 1977; Order No. 6–84, 49 FR 20812, May 
17, 1984; Order No. 25–88, 53 FR 41161, Oct. 20, 
1988; Order No. 137–97, 62 FR 34169, June 25, 
1997; Order No. 142–97, 62 FR 44083, Aug. 19, 
1997; Order No. 196–2000, 65 FR 21139, Apr. 20, 
2000; Order No. 197–2000, 65 FR 21140, Apr. 20, 
2000] 
§ 16.100 Exemption of Office of Justice 
Programs—limited access. 
(a) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(d): 
(1) The Civil Rights Investigative 
System (JUSTICE/OJP–008). 
This exemption applies only to the ex-
tent that information in this system is 
subject to exemption pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). 
(b) Exemption from subsection (d) is 
claimed since access to information in 
the Civil Rights Investigative System 
prior to final administrative resolution 
will deter conciliation and compliance 
efforts. Consistent with the legislative 
purpose of the Privacy Act of 1974, de-
cisions to release information from the 
system will be made on a case-by-case 
basis and information will be made 
available where it does not compromise 
the complaint and compliance process. 
In addition, where explicit promises of 
confidentiality must be made to a 
source during an investigation, disclo-
sure will be limited to the extent that 
the identity of such confidential 
sources will not be compromised. 
[Order No. 645–76, 41 FR 12640, Mar. 26, 1976, 
as amended by Order No. 5–78, 43 FR 36439, 
Aug. 17, 1978; Order No. 43–80, 45 FR 6780, Jan. 
30, 1980; Order No. 6–86, 51 FR 15479, Apr. 24, 
1986; Order No. 6–236–2001, 66 FR 35374, July 5, 
2001] 
§ 16.101 Exemption of U.S. Marshals 
Service Systems—limited access, as 
indicated. 
(a) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(c) (3) and 
(4), (d), (e) (1), (2) and (3), (e)(4) (G) and 
(H), (e)(5), (e)(8), (f) and (g): 
(1) Warrant Information System 
(JUSTICE/USM–007). 
These exemptions apply only to the ex-
tent that information in this system is 
subject to exemption pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552a(j)(2). 
(b) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because the 
release of disclosure accounting for dis-
closure made pursuant to subsection 
(b) of the Act, including those per-
mitted under routine uses published for 
this system of records would permit a 
person to determine whether he is the 
subject of a criminal investigation, and 
to determine whether a warrant has 
been issued against him, and therefore 
present a serious impediment to law 
enforcement. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) since an ex-
emption is being claimed for sub-
section (d) of the Act, this section is 
inapplicable. 
(3) From subsection (d) because ac-
cess to records would inform a person 
for whom a federal warrant has been 
issued of the nature and scope of infor-
mation obtained as to his activities, of 
the identity of informants, and afford 
the person sufficient information to en-
able the subject to avoid apprehension. 
These factors would present a serious 
impediment to law enforcement in that 
they would thwart the warrant process 
and endanger lives of informants etc. 
(4) From subsections (e)(1) and (e)(5) 
because the requirements of these sub-
sections would present a serious im-
pediment to law enforcement in that it 
is impossible to determine in advance 
what information collected during an 
investigation will be important or cru-
cial to the apprehension of Federal fu-
gitives. In the interest of effective law 
enforcement, it is appropriate in a 
thorough investigation to retain seem-
ingly irrelevant, untimely, or inac-
curate information which, with the 
passage of time, would aid in estab-
lishing patterns of activity and provide 
investigative leads toward fugitive ap-
prehension and assist in law enforce-
ment activities of other agencies. 
(5) From subsection (e)(2) because the 
requirement that information be col-
lected to the greatest extent practical 
from the subject individual would 
present a serious impediment to law 
enforcement because the subject of the 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00407 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR398 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.101 
investigation or prosecution would be 
placed on notice as to the existence of 
the warrant and would therefore be 
able to avoid detection or apprehen-
sion. 
(6) From subsection (e)(3) because the 
requirement that individuals supplying 
information be provided with a form 
stating the requirements of subsection 
(e)(3) would constitute a serious im-
pediment to law enforcement in that it 
could compromise the existence of a 
confidential investigation or reveal 
identity of confidential informants. 
(7) From subsections (e)(4) (G) and 
(H) since an exemption is being 
claimed for subsections (f) and (d) of 
the Act, these subsections are inappli-
cable. 
(8) From subsection (e)(8) because the 
individual notice requirement of this 
subsection would present a serious im-
pediment to law enforcement in that it 
would give persons sufficient warning 
to avoid warrants, subpoena, etc. 
(9) From subsection (f) because proce-
dures for notice to an individual pursu-
ant to subsection (f)(1) as to existence 
of records pertaining to him dealing 
with warrants must be exempted be-
cause such notice to individuals would 
be detrimental to the successful serv-
ice of a warrant. Since an exemption is 
being claimed for subsection (d) of the 
Act the rules required pursuant to sub-
sections (f) (2) through (5) are inappli-
cable to this system of records. 
(10) From subsection (g) since an ex-
emption is being claimed for sub-
section (d) and (f) this section is inap-
plicable and is exempted for the rea-
sons set forth for these subsections. 
(c) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a (c) (3) and 
(4), (d), (e) (2) and (3), (e)(4) (G) and (H), 
(e)(8), (f)(2) and (g): 
(1) Witness Security System (JUS-
TICE/USM–008). 
These exemptions apply only to the ex-
tent that information in this system is 
subject to exemption pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552a(j)(2). 
(d) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because the 
release of the disclosure accounting for 
disclosures made pursuant to sub-
section (b) of the Act including those 
permitted under routine uses published 
for this system of records would ham-
per the effective functioning of the 
Witness Security Program which by its 
very nature requires strict confiden-
tiality vis-a-vis the records. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) for the rea-
son stated in (b)(2) of this section. 
(3) From subsection (d) because the 
U.S. Marshals Service Witness Security 
Program aids efforts of law enforce-
ment officials to prevent, control or re-
duce crime. Access to records would 
present a serious impediment to effec-
tive law enforcement through revela-
tion of confidential sources and 
through disclosure of operating proce-
dures of the program, and through in-
creased exposure of the program to the 
public. 
(4) From subsection (e)(2) because in 
the Witness Security Program the re-
quirement that information be col-
lected to the greatest extent possible 
from the subject individual would con-
stitute an impediment to the program, 
which is sometimes dependent on 
sources other than the subject witness 
for verification of information per-
taining to the witness. 
(5) From subsection (e)(3) for the rea-
son stated in (b)(6) of this section. 
(6) From subsection (e)(4) (G) and (H) 
for the reason stated in (b)(7) of this 
section. 
(7) From subsection (e)(8) for the rea-
son stated in (b)(8) of this section. 
(8) From subsection (f)(2) since an ex-
emption is being claimed for sub-
section (d) of the Act the rules required 
pursuant to subsection (f) (2) through 
(5) are inapplicable to this system of 
records. 
(9) From subsection (g) for the reason 
stated in (b)(10) of this section. 
(e) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (4), 
(d), (e)(1), (2) and (3), (e)(4)(G) and (H), 
(e)(5), (e)(8), (f) and (g). 
(1) Internal Affairs System (JUS-
TICE/USM–002)—Limited access. These 
exemptions apply only to the extent 
that information in this system is sub-
ject to exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
552a(j)(2), (k)(2) or (k)(5). Where compli-
ance would not interfere with or ad-
versely affect the law enforcement 
process, the USMS may waive the ex-
emptions, either partially or totally. 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00408 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR399 
Department of Justice § 16.101 
(f) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsections (c)(3) and (d) to 
the extent that release of the disclo-
sure accounting may impede or inter-
fere with civil or criminal law enforce-
ment efforts, reveal a source who fur-
nished information to the Government 
in confidence, and/or result in an un-
warranted invasion of the personal pri-
vacy of collateral record subjects or 
other third party individuals. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) for the rea-
son stated in (b)(2) of this section. 
(3) From subsection (e)(1) to the ex-
tent that it is necessary to retain all 
information in order not to impede, 
compromise, or interfere with civil or 
criminal law enforcement efforts, e.g., 
where the significance of the informa-
tion may not be readily determined 
and/or where such information may 
provide leads or assistance to Federal 
and other law agencies in discharging 
their law enforcement responsibilities. 
(4) From subsection (e)(2) because the 
requirement that information be col-
lected to the greatest extent prac-
ticable from the subject individual 
would present a serious impediment to 
law enforcement because the subject of 
the investigation or prosecution would 
be placed on notice as to the existence 
of the investigation and would there-
fore be able to compromise the inves-
tigation and avoid detection or appre-
hension. 
(5) From subsection (e)(3) for the rea-
son stated in (b)(6) of this section. 
(6) From subsections (e)(4) (G) and 
(H) for the reason stated in (b)(7) of 
this section. 
(7) From subsection (e)(5) because in 
the collection of information for law 
enforcement purposes it is impossible 
to determine in advance what informa-
tion is accurate, relevant, timely and 
complete. With the passage of time, 
seemingly irrelevant or untimely infor-
mation may acquire new significance 
and the accuracy of such information 
can only be determined in a court of 
law. The restrictions imposed by sub-
section (e)(5) would restrict the ability 
to collect information for law enforce-
ment purposes and interfere with the 
preparation of a complete investigative 
report or otherwise impede effective 
law enforcement. 
(8) From subsection (e)(8) because the 
individual notice requirement of this 
subsection would present a serious im-
pediment to law enforcement in that 
the subject of the investigation would 
be alerted as to the existence of the in-
vestigation and therefore be able to 
compromise the investigation and 
avoid detection, subpoena, etc. 
(9) From subsection (f) because proce-
dures for notice to an individual pursu-
ant to subsection (f)(1) as to the exist-
ence of records dealing with investiga-
tions of criminal or civil law violations 
would enable the individual to com-
promise the investigation and evade 
detection or apprehension. Since an ex-
emption is being claimed for sub-
section (d) of the Act, the rules re-
quired pursuant to subsections (f)(2) 
through (f)(5) are not applicable to this 
system. 
(10) From subsection (g) for the rea-
son stated in (b)(10) of this section. 
(g) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c) (3) and (4), 
(d), (e)(1), (2) and (3), (e)(4) (G) and (H), 
(e)(5), (e)(8), (f) and (g): 
(1) U.S. Marshals Service Threat 
Analysis Information System (JUS-
TICE/USM–009). 
These exemptions apply only to the ex-
tent that information in this system is 
subject to exemption pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552a(j)(2). 
(h) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because to 
release the disclosure accounting 
would permit a person to determine 
whether he or she has been identified 
as a specific threat to USMS protectees 
and to determine the need for counter-
measures to USMS protective activi-
ties and thereby present a serious im-
pediment to law enforcement. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) because it 
is inapplicable since an exemption is 
being claimed for subsection (d). 
(3) From subsection (d) because to 
permit access to records would inform 
a person of the nature and scope of in-
formation obtained as to his or her 
threat-related activities and of the 
identity of confidential sources, and af-
ford the person sufficient information 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00409 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR400 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.101 
to develop countermeasures to thwart 
protective arrangements and endanger 
lives of USMS protectees, informants, 
etc. To permit amendment of the 
records would interfere with ongoing 
criminal law enforcement and impose 
an impossible administrative burden 
requiring criminal investigations to be 
continuously reinvestigated. 
(4) From subsections (e) (1) and (5) be-
cause the collection of investigatory 
information used to assess the exist-
ence, extent and likelihood of a threat 
situation necessarily includes material 
from which it is impossible to identify 
and segregate information which may 
not be important to the conduct of a 
thorough assessment. It is often impos-
sible to determine in advance if all in-
formation collected is accurate, rel-
evant, timely and complete but, in the 
interests of developing effective protec-
tive measures, it is necessary that the 
U.S. Marshals Service retain this infor-
mation in order to establish patterns of 
activity to aid in accurately assessing 
threat situations. The restrictions of 
subsections (e) (1) and (5) would impede 
the protective responsibilities of the 
Service and could result in death or se-
rious injury to Marshals Service 
protectees. 
(5) From subsection (e)(2) because to 
collect information from the subject 
individual would serve notice that he 
or she is identified as a specific threat 
to USMS protectees and would enable 
the subject individual to develop coun-
termeasures to protective activities 
and thereby present a serious impedi-
ment to law enforcement. 
(6) From subsection (e)(3) because to 
inform individuals as required by this 
subsection would enable the subject in-
dividual to develop countermeasures to 
USMS protective arrangements or 
identify confidential sources and there-
by present a serious impediment to law 
enforcement. 
(7) From subsections (e)(4) (G) and 
(H) because they are inapplicable since 
an exemption is being claimed for sub-
sections (d) and (f) of the Act. 
(8) From subsection (e)(8) because to 
serve notice would give persons suffi-
cient warning to develop counter-
measures to protective arrangements 
and thereby present a serious impedi-
ment to law enforcement through com-
promise of protective procedures, etc. 
(9) From subsection (f) because this 
system of records is exempt from the 
provisions of subsection (d). 
(10) From subsection (g) because it is 
inapplicable since an exemption is 
being claimed for subsections (d) and 
(f). 
(i) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c) (3) and (d): 
(1) Judicial Facility Security Index 
System (JUSTICE/USM–010) 
These exemptions apply only to the ex-
tent that information in this system is 
exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5). 
(j) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) only to the 
extent that release of the disclosure ac-
counting would reveal the identity of a 
confidential source. 
(2) From subsection (d) only to the 
extent that access to information 
would reveal the identity of a confiden-
tial source. 
(k) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c) (3) and (4), 
(d), (e)(1), (2) and (3), (e)(4) (G) and (H), 
(e)(5), (e)(8), (f) and (g): 
(1) U.S. Marshals Service Freedom of 
Information/Privacy Act (FOIA/PA) 
Files (JUSTICE/USM–012). 
These exemptions apply only to the ex-
tent that information in this system is 
subject to exemption pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552a (j)(2), (k)(2) and (k)(5). 
(l) Because this system contains De-
partment of Justice civil and criminal 
law enforcement, investigatory 
records, exemptions from the par-
ticular subsections are justified for the 
following reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because to 
release the disclosure accounting 
would permit the subject of an inves-
tigation to obtain valuable information 
concerning the existence and nature of 
the investigation and present a serious 
impediment to law enforcement. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) because 
that portion of this system which con-
sists of investigatory records compiled 
for law enforcement purposes is being 
exempted from the provisions of sub-
section (d), rendering this provision 
not applicable. 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00410 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR401 
Department of Justice § 16.101 
(3) From subsection (d) because to 
permit access to investigatory records 
would reveal the identity of confiden-
tial sources and impede ongoing inves-
tigative or law enforcement activities 
by the premature disclosure of infor-
mation related to those efforts. To per-
mit amendment of the records would 
interfere with ongoing criminal law en-
forcement and impose an impossible 
administrative burden by requiring 
criminal investigations to be continu-
ously reinvestigated. 
(4) From subsections (e) (1) and (5) be-
cause it is often impossible to deter-
mine in advance if investigatory 
records contained in this system are 
accurate, relevant, timely and com-
plete but, in the interests of effective 
law enforcement, it is necessary to re-
tain this information to aid in estab-
lishing patterns of activity and provide 
leads in criminal investigations. 
(5) From subsection (e)(2) because to 
collect information from the subject 
individual would serve notice that he 
or she is the subject of criminal inves-
tigative or law enforcement activity 
and thereby present a serious impedi-
ment to law enforcement. 
(6) From subsection (e)(3) because to 
inform individuals as required by this 
subsection would enable the subject in-
dividual to identify confidential 
sources, reveal the existence of an in-
vestigation, and compromise law en-
forcement efforts. 
(7) From subsections (e)(4) (G) and 
(H) because they are inapplicable since 
an exemption is being claimed for sub-
sections (d) and (f) for investigatory 
records contained in this system. 
(8) From subsection (e)(8) because to 
serve notice would give persons suffi-
cient warning to evade law enforce-
ment efforts. 
(9) From subsection (f) because inves-
tigatory records contained in this sys-
tem are exempt from the provisions of 
subsection (d). 
(10) From subsection (g) because it is 
inapplicable since an exemption is 
being claimed for subsections (d) and 
(f). 
(m) The following system of records 
is exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c) (3) and 
(4), (d), (e) (2) and (3), (e)(4) (G) and (H), 
(e)(8), (f) and (g): 
(1) U.S. Marshals Service Administra-
tive Proceedings, Claims and Civil Liti-
gation Files (JUSTICE/USM–013). 
These exemptions apply only to the ex-
tent that information in this system is 
subject to exemption pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) or (k)(5). 
(n) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because to 
release the disclosure accounting for 
disclosures pursuant to the routine 
uses published for this system would 
permit the subject of a criminal or 
civil case or matter under investiga-
tion, or a case or matter in litigation, 
or under regulatory or administrative 
review or action, to obtain valuable in-
formation concerning the nature of 
that investigation, case or matter, and 
present a serious impediment to law 
enforcement or civil legal activities, or 
reveal a confidential source. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) because the 
exemption claimed for subsection (d) 
will make this section inapplicable. 
(3) From subsection (d) because to 
permit access to records contained in 
this system would provide information 
concerning litigation strategy, or case 
development, and/or reveal the nature 
of the criminal or civil case or matter 
under investigation or administrative 
review, or in litigation, and present a 
serious impediment to law enforcement 
or civil legal activities, or reveal a con-
fidential source. 
(4) From subsection (e)(2) because ef-
fective legal representation, defense, or 
claim adjudication necessitates col-
lecting information from all individ-
uals having knowledge of the criminal 
or civil case or matter. To collect in-
formation primarily from the subject 
individual would present a serious im-
pediment to law enforcement or civil 
legal activities. 
(5) From subsection (e)(3) because to 
inform the individuals as required by 
this subsection would permit the sub-
ject of a criminal or civil matter under 
investigation or administrative review 
to compromise that investigation or 
administrative review and thereby im-
pede law enforcement efforts or civil 
legal activities. 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00411 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR402 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.101 
(6) From subsections (e)(4) (G) and 
(H) because these provisions are inap-
plicable since this system is exempt 
from subsections (d) and (f) of the Act. 
(7) From subsection (e)(8) because to 
serve notice would give persons suffi-
cient warning to compromise a crimi-
nal or civil investigation or adminis-
trative review and thereby impede law 
enforcement of civil legal activities. 
(8) From subsection (f) because this 
system of records is exempt from the 
provisions of subsection (d). 
(9) From subsection (g) because it is 
inapplicable since an exemption is 
claimed for subsections (d) and (f). 
(o) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c) (3) and (4), 
(d), (e) (1), (2), (5) and (g): 
(1) U.S. Marshals Service Prisoner 
Transportation System (JUSTICE/ 
USM–003). 
These exemptions apply only to the extent 
that information in this system is subject to 
exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2). 
(p) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) where the 
release of the disclosure accounting for 
disclosures made pursuant to sub-
section (b) of the Act would reveal a 
source who furnished information to 
the Government in confidence. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) to the ex-
tent that the system is exempt from 
subsection (d). 
(3) From subsection (d) because ac-
cess to records would reveal the names 
and other information pertaining to 
prisoners, including sensitive security 
information such as the identities and 
locations of confidential sources, e.g., 
informants and protected witnesses; 
and disclose access codes, data entry 
codes and message routing symbols 
used in law enforcement communica-
tions systems to schedule and effect 
prisoner movements. Thus, such a com-
promise of law enforcement commu-
nications systems would subject law 
enforcement personnel and other pris-
oners to harassment and possible dan-
ger, and present a serious threat to law 
enforcement activities. To permit 
amendment of the records would inter-
fere with ongoing criminal law enforce-
ment and impose an impossible admin-
istrative burden by requiring that in-
formation affecting the prisoner’s secu-
rity classification be continuously re-
investigated when contested by the 
prisoner, or by anyone on his behalf. 
(4) From subsections (e) (1) and (5) be-
cause the security classification of 
prisoners is based upon information 
collected during official criminal in-
vestigations; and, in the interest of en-
suring safe and secure prisoner move-
ments it may be necessary to retain in-
formation the relevance, necessity, ac-
curacy, timeliness, and completeness 
of which cannot be readily established, 
but which may subsequently prove use-
ful in establishing patterns of criminal 
activity or avoidance, and thus be es-
sential to assigning an appropriate se-
curity classification to the prisoner. 
The restrictions of subsection (e) (1) 
and (5) would impede the information 
collection responsibilities of the 
USMS, and the lack of all available in-
formation could result in death or seri-
ous injury to USMS and other law en-
forcement personnel, prisoners in cus-
tody, and members of the public. 
(5) From subsection (e)(2) because the 
requirement to collect information 
from the subject individual would im-
pede the information collection respon-
sibilities of the USMS in that the 
USMS is often dependent upon sources 
other than the subject individual for 
verification of information pertaining 
to security risks posed by the indi-
vidual prisoner. 
(6) From subsection (g) to the extent 
that the system is exempt from sub-
section (d). 
(q) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (4), 
(d), (e)(1), (2), (3), (e)(5) and (e)(8) and 
(g): 
(1) U.S. Marshals Service Prisoner 
Processing and Population Manage-
ment System (JUSTICE/USM–005). 
These exemptions apply only to the extent 
that information in this system is subject to 
exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2). 
(r) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because to 
release the disclosure accounting 
would permit the subject of a criminal 
proceeding to determine the extent or 
nature of law enforcement authorities’ 
knowledge regarding his/her alleged 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00412 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR403 
Department of Justice § 16.101 
misconduct or criminal activities. The 
disclosure of such information could 
alert the subject to devise ways in 
which to conceal his/her activities and/ 
or prevent law enforcement from learn-
ing additional information about his/ 
her activities, or otherwise inhibit law 
enforcement efforts. In addition, where 
the individual is the subject of an on-
going or potential inquiry/investiga-
tion, such release could reveal the na-
ture thereof prematurely, and may also 
enable the subject to determine the 
identity of witnesses and informants. 
Such disclosure could compromise the 
ongoing or potential inquiry/investiga-
tion, endanger the lives of witnesses 
and informants, or otherwise impede or 
thwart law enforcement efforts. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) to the ex-
tent that the system is exempt from 
subsection (d). 
(3) From subsection (d) because to 
permit unlimited access would permit 
the subject of a criminal proceeding to 
determine the extent or nature of law 
enforcement authorities’ knowledge re-
garding his/her alleged misconduct or 
criminal activities. The disclosure of 
such information could alert the sub-
ject to devise ways in which to conceal 
his/her activities and/or prevent law 
enforcement from learning additional 
information about his/her activities, or 
otherwise inhibit law enforcement ef-
forts. Disclosure would also allow the 
subject to obtain sensitive information 
concerning the existence and nature of 
security measures and jeopardize the 
safe and secure transfer of the prisoner, 
the safety and security of other pris-
oners, informants and witnesses, law 
enforcement personnel, and the public. 
In addition, disclosure may enable the 
subject to learn prematurely of an on-
going or potential inquiry/investiga-
tion, and may also permit him/her to 
determine the identities of confidential 
sources, informants, or protected wit-
nesses. Such disclosure could com-
promise the ongoing or potential in-
quiry/investigation, endanger the lives 
of witnesses and informants, or other-
wise impede or thwart law enforcement 
efforts. Disclosure may also constitute 
an unwarranted invasion of the per-
sonal privacy of third parties. Further, 
disclosure would reveal access codes, 
data entry codes and message routing 
symbols used in law enforcement com-
munications systems. Access to such 
codes and symbols would permit the 
subject to impede the flow of law en-
forcement communications and com-
promise the integrity of law enforce-
ment information, and thus present a 
serious threat to law enforcement ac-
tivities. To permit amendment of the 
records would expose security matters, 
and would impose an impossible admin-
istrative burden by requiring that se-
curity precautions, and information 
pertaining thereto, be continuously re-
evaluated if contested by the prisoner, 
or by anyone on his or her behalf. 
Similarly, to permit amendment could 
interfere with ongoing or potential in-
quiries/investigations by requiring that 
such inquiries/investigations be con-
tinuously reinvestigated, or that infor-
mation collected (the relevance and ac-
curacy of which cannot readily be de-
termined) be subjected to continuous 
change. 
(4) From subsections (e)(1) and (5) be-
cause the system may contain inves-
tigatory information or information 
which is derived from information col-
lected during official criminal inves-
tigations. In the interest of effective 
law enforcement and litigation, of se-
curing the prisoner and of protecting 
the public, it may be necessary to re-
tain information the relevance, neces-
sity, accuracy, timeliness and com-
pleteness of which cannot be readily es-
tablished. Such information may nev-
ertheless provide investigative leads to 
other Federal or law enforcement agen-
cies, or prove necessary to establish 
patterns of criminal activity or behav-
ior, and/or prove essential to the safe 
and secure detention (and movement) 
of prisoners. Further, the provisions of 
(e)(1) and (e)(5) would restrict the abil-
ity of the USMS in exercising its judg-
ment in reporting information during 
investigations or during the develop-
ment of appropriate security measures, 
and thus present a serious impediment 
to law enforcement efforts. 
(5) From subsection (e)(2) because the 
requirement to collect information 
from the subject individual would im-
pede the information collection respon-
sibilities of the USMS which is often 
dependent upon sources other than the 
subject individual for verification of 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00413 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR404 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.101 
information pertaining to security 
risks posed by the individual prisoner, 
to alleged misconduct or criminal ac-
tivity of the prisoner, or to any matter 
affecting the safekeeping and disposi-
tion of the individual prisoner. 
(6) From subsection (e)(3) because to 
inform individuals as required by this 
subsection could impede the informa-
tion gathering process, reveal the ex-
istence of an ongoing or potential in-
quiry/investigation or security proce-
dure, and compromise law enforcement 
efforts. 
(7) From subsection (e)(8) because to 
serve notice would give persons suffi-
cient warning to compromise an ongo-
ing or potential inquiry/investigation 
and thereby evade and impede law en-
forcement and security efforts. 
(8) From subsection (g) to the extent 
that the system is exempt from sub-
section (d). 
(s) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c) (3) and (4), 
(d), (e) (1), (2), (3), (e) (5) and (e) (8) and 
(g): 
Joint Automated Booking Stations, 
Justice/USM–014 
(t) These exemptions apply only to 
the extent that information in the sys-
tem is subject to exemption pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2). Where compliance 
would not interfere with or adversely 
affect the law enforcement process, the 
USMS may waive the exemptions, ei-
ther partially or totally. Exemption 
from the particular subsections are jus-
tified for the following reasons: 
(1) From subsections (c)(3) and (d) to 
the extent that access to records in 
this system of records may impede or 
interfere with law enforcement efforts, 
result in the disclosure of information 
that would constitute and unwarranted 
invasion of the personal privacy of col-
lateral record subjects or other third 
parties, and/or jeopardize the health 
and/or safety of third parties. 
(2) Where access to certain records 
may be appropriate, exemption from 
the amendment provisions of sub-
section (d)(2) in necessary to the extent 
that the necessary and appropriate jus-
tification, together with proof of 
record inaccuracy, is not provided, and/ 
or to the extent that numerous, frivo-
lous requests to amend could impose an 
impossible administrative burden by 
requiring agencies to continuously re-
view booking and arrest data, much of 
which is collected from the arrestee 
during the arrest. 
(3) From subsection (e)(1) to the ex-
tent that it is necessary to retain all 
information in order not to impede, 
compromise, or interfere with law en-
forcement efforts, e.g., where the sig-
nificance of the information may not 
be readily determined and/or where 
such information may provide leads or 
assistance to Federal and other law en-
forcement agencies in discharging 
their law enforcement responsibilities. 
(4) From subsection (e)(2) because, in 
some instances, the application of this 
provision would present a serious im-
pediment to law enforcement since it 
may be necessary to obtain and verify 
information from a variety of sources 
other than the record subject to ensure 
safekeeping, security, and effective law 
enforcement. For example, it may be 
necessary that medical and psychiatric 
personnel provide information regard-
ing the subject’s behavior, physical 
health, or mental stability, etc. To en-
sure proper care while in custody, or it 
may be necessary to obtain informa-
tion from a case agent or the court to 
ensure proper disposition of the subject 
individual. 
(5) From subsection (e)(3) because the 
requirement that agencies inform each 
individual whom it asks to supply in-
formation of such information as is re-
quired by subsection (e)(3) may, in 
some cases, impede the information 
gathering process or otherwise inter-
fere with or compromise law enforce-
ment efforts, e.g., the subject may de-
liberately withhold information, or 
give erroneous information. 
(6) From subsection (e)(5) because in 
the collection of information for law 
enforcement purposes it is impossible 
to determine in advance what informa-
tion is accurate, relevant, timely and 
complete. With the passage of time, 
seemingly irrelevant or untimely infor-
mation may acquire new significance 
and the accuracy of such information 
can only be determined in a court of 
law. The restrictions imposed by sub-
section (e)(5) would restrict the ability 
to collect information for law enforce-
ment purposes and may prevent the 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00414 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR405 
Department of Justice § 16.102 
eventual development of the necessary 
criminal intelligence or otherwise im-
pede effective law enforcement. 
(7) From subsection (e)(8) to the ex-
tent that such notice may impede, 
interfere with, or otherwise com-
promise law enforcement and security 
efforts. 
(8) From subsection (g) to the extent 
that this system is exempt from the ac-
cess and amendment provisions of sub-
section (d). 
(u) Consistent with the legislative 
purpose of the Privacy Act of 1974, the 
United States Marshals Service will 
grant access to nonexempt material in 
records which are maintained by the 
Service. Disclosure will be governed by 
the Department’s Privacy Regulations, 
but will be limited to the extent that 
the identity of confidential sources 
will not be compromised; subjects of an 
investigation of an actual or potential 
criminal, civil or regulatory violation 
will not be alerted to the investigation; 
the physical safety of witnesses, in-
formants and law enforcement per-
sonnel will not be endangered; the pri-
vacy of third parties will not be vio-
lated; and that the disclosure would 
not otherwise impede effective law en-
forcement. Whenever possible, informa-
tion of the above nature will be deleted 
from the requested documents and the 
balance made available. The control-
ling principle behind this limited ac-
cess is to allow disclosures except 
those indicated above. The decisions to 
release information from these systems 
will be made on a case-by-case basis. 
[Order No. 645–76, 41 FR 12640, Mar. 26, 1976, 
as amended by Order No. 8–83, 48 FR 19024, 
Apr. 27, 1983; Order No. 10–86, 51 FR 20275, 
June 4, 1986; Order No. 11–86, 51 FR 20277, 
June 4, 1986; Order No. 61–92, 57 FR 3284, Jan. 
29, 1992; Order No. 66–92, 57 FR 20654, May 14, 
1992; Order No. 105–95, 60 FR 30467, June 9, 
1995; Order No. 212–2001, 66 FR 6470, Jan. 22, 
2001] 
§ 16.102 Exemption of Drug Enforce-
ment Administration and Immigra-
tion and Naturalization Service 
Joint System of Records. 
(a) The following system of records is 
exempted pursuant to provisions of 5 
U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) from subsections (c) (3) 
and (4), (d), (e) (1), (2) and (3), (e)(4) (G), 
(H), and (I), (e)(5) and (8), (f), (g), and 
(h) of 5 U.S.C. 552a; in addition the fol-
lowing system of records is exempted 
pursuant to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 
552 (k)(1) and (k)(2) from subsections 
(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4) (G), (H), and (I), 
and (f) of 5 U.S.C. 552a. 
(1) Automated Intelligence Record 
System (Pathfinder), JUSTICE/DEA- 
INS-111. 
These exemptions apply to the extent 
that information in those systems is 
subject to exemption pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552a (j)(2), (k)(1) and (k)(2). 
(b) The system of records listed under 
paragraph (a) of this section is exempt-
ed, for the reasons set forth from the 
following provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a: 
(1)(c)(3). The release of the disclosure 
accounting for disclosures made pursu-
ant to subsection (b) of the Act, includ-
ing those permitted under the routine 
uses published for these systems of 
records, would permit the subject of an 
investigation of an actual or potential 
criminal, civil, or regulatory violation 
to determine whether he is the subject 
of investigation, or to obtain valuable 
information concerning the nature of 
that investigation, and the information 
obtained, or the identity of witnesses 
and informants and would therefore 
present a serious impediment to law 
enforcement. In addition, disclosure of 
the accounting would amount to notice 
to the individual of the existence of a 
record; such notice requirement under 
subsection (f)(1) is specifically exempt-
ed for these systems of records. 
(2)(c)(4). Since an exemption is being 
claimed for subsection (d) of the Act 
(Access to Records) this subsection is 
inapplicable to the extent that these 
systems of records are exempted from 
subsection (d). 
(3)(d). Access to the records con-
tained in these systems would inform 
the subject of an investigation of an 
actual or potential criminal, civil, or 
regulatory violation of the existence of 
that investigation, or the nature and 
scope of the information and evidence 
obtained as to his activities, of the 
identity of witnesses and informants, 
or would provide information that 
could enable the subject to avoid detec-
tion or apprehension. These factors 
would present a serious impediment to 
effective law enforcement because they 
could prevent the successful comple-
tion of the investigation, endanger the 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00415 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR406 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.102 
physical safety of witnesses or inform-
ants, and lead to the improper influ-
encing of witnesses, the destruction of 
evidence, or the fabrication of testi-
mony. 
(4)(e)(1). The notices of these systems 
of records published in the F
EDERAL 
REGISTER set forth the basic statutory 
or related authority for maintenance of 
this system. However, in the course of 
criminal or other law enforcement in-
vestigations, cases, and matters, the 
Immigration and Naturalization Serv-
ice or the Drug Enforcement Adminis-
tration will occasionally obtain infor-
mation concerning actual or potential 
violations of law that are not strictly 
within its statutory or other authority 
or may compile information in the 
course of an investigation which may 
not be relevant to a specific prosecu-
tion. In the interests of effective law 
enforcement, it is necessary to retain 
such information in these systems of 
records since it can aid in establishing 
patterns of criminal activity and can 
provide valuable leads for federal and 
other law enforcement agencies. 
(5)(e)(2). In a criminal investigation 
or prosecution, the requirement that 
information be collected to the great-
est extent practicable from the subject 
individual would present a serious im-
pediment to law enforcement because 
the subject of the investigation or 
prosecution would be placed on notice 
as to the existence of the investigation 
and would therefore be able to avoid 
detection or apprehension, to influence 
witnesses improperly, to destroy evi-
dence, or to fabricate testimony. 
(6)(e)(3). The requirement that indi-
viduals supplying information be pro-
vided with a form stating the require-
ments of subsection (e)(3) would con-
stitute a serious impediment to law en-
forcement in that it could compromise 
the existence of a confidential inves-
tigation or reveal the identity of wit-
nesses or confidential informants. 
(7)(e)(4) (G) and (H). Since an exemp-
tion is being claimed for subsections (f) 
(Agency Rules) and (d) (Access to 
Records) of the Act these subsections 
are inapplicable to the extent that 
these systems of records are exempted 
from subsections (f) and (d). 
(8)(e)(4)(I). The categories of sources 
of the records in these systems have 
been published in the F
EDERAL REG-
ISTER in broad generic terms in the be-
lief that this is all that subsection 
(e)(4)(I) of the Act requires. In the 
event, however, that this subsection 
should be interpreted to require more 
detail as to the identity of sources of 
the records in these systems, exemp-
tion from this provision is necessary in 
order to protect the confidentiality of 
the sources of criminal and other law 
enforcement information. Such exemp-
tion is further necessary to protect the 
privacy and physical safety of wit-
nesses and informants. 
(9)(e)(5). In the collection of informa-
tion for criminal law enforcement pur-
poses it is impossible to determine in 
advance what information is accurate, 
relevant, timely, and complete. With 
the passage of time, seemingly irrele-
vant or untimely information may ac-
quire new significance as further inves-
tigation brings new details to light and 
the accuracy of such information can 
often only be determined in a court of 
law. The restrictions of subsection 
(e)(5) would restrict the ability of 
trained investigators, intelligence ana-
lysts, and government attorneys in ex-
ercising their judgment in reporting on 
information and investigations and im-
pede the development of criminal or 
other intelligence necessary for effec-
tive law enforcement. 
(10)(e)(8). The individual notice re-
quirements of subsection (e)(8) could 
present a serious impediment to law 
enforcement as this could interfere 
with the ability to issue warrants or 
subpoenas and could reveal investiga-
tive techniques, procedures, or evi-
dence. 
(11)(f). Procedures for notice to an in-
dividual pursuant to subsection (f)(1) as 
to the existence of records pertaining 
to him dealing with an actual or poten-
tial criminal, civil, or regulatory in-
vestigation or prosecution must be ex-
empted because such notice to an indi-
vidual would be detrimental to the suc-
cessful conduct and/or completion of an 
investigation or prosecution pending or 
future. In addition, mere notice of the 
fact of an investigation could inform 
the subject or others that their activi-
ties are under or may become the sub-
ject of an investigation and could en-
able the subjects to avoid detection or 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00416 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR407 
Department of Justice § 16.103 
apprehension, to influence witnesses 
improperly, to destroy evidence, or to 
fabricate testimony. 
Since an exemption is being claimed 
for subsection (d) of the Act (Access to 
Records) the rules required pursuant to 
subsections (f) (2) through (5) are inap-
plicable to these systems of records to 
the extent that these systems of 
records are exempted from subsection 
(d). 
(12)(g). Since an exemption is being 
claimed for subsections (d) (Access to 
Records) and (f) (Agency Rules) this 
section is inapplicable, and is exempted 
for the reasons set forth for those sub-
sections, to the extent that these sys-
tems of records are exempted from sub-
sections (d) and (f). 
(13)(h). Since an exemption is being 
claimed for subsection (d) (Access to 
Records) and (f) (Agency Rules) this 
section is inapplicable, and is exempted 
for the reasons set forth for those sub-
sections, to the extent that these sys-
tems of records are exempted from sub-
sections (d) and (f). 
(14) In addition, exemption is claimed 
for these systems of records from com-
pliance with the following provisions of 
the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a) 
pursuant to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 
552a(k)(1): subsections (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), 
(e)(4) (G), (H), and (I), and (f) to the ex-
tent that the records contained in 
these systems are specifically author-
ized to be kept secret in the interests 
of national defense and foreign policy. 
[Order No. 742–77, 42 FR 40907, Aug. 12, 1977] 
§ 16.103 Exemption of the INTERPOL- 
United States National Central Bu-
reau (INTERPOL-USNCB) System. 
(a) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c) (3) and (4), 
(d), (e) (1), (2), and (3), (e)(4) (G) and (H), 
(e)(5) and (8), (f) and (g): 
(1) The INTERPOL-United States Na-
tional Central Bureau (INTERPOL- 
USNCB) (Department of Justice) 
INTERPOL-USNCB Records System 
(JUSTICE/INTERPOL–001). 
This exemption applies only to the ex-
tent that information in this system is 
subject to exemption pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552a (j)(2), (k)(2), and (k)(5). 
(b) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because the 
release of accounting disclosures would 
place the subject of an investigation on 
notice that he is under investigation 
and provide him with significant infor-
mation concerning the nature of the 
investigation, thus resulting in a seri-
ous impediment to law enforcement. 
(2) From subsections (c)(4), (d), (e)(4) 
(G), and (H), (f) and (g) because these 
provisions concern individual access to 
records and such access might com-
promise ongoing investigations reveal 
investigatory techniques and confiden-
tial informants, and invade the privacy 
of private citizens who provide infor-
mation in connection with a particular 
investigation. 
(3) From subsection (e)(1) because in-
formation received in the course of an 
international criminal investigation 
may involve a violation of state or 
local law, and it is beneficial to main-
tain this information to provide inves-
tigative leads to state and local law en-
forcement agencies. 
(4) From subsection (e)(2) because 
collecting information from the sub-
ject of criminal investigations would 
thwart the investigation by placing the 
subject on notice. 
(5) From subsection (e)(3) because 
supplying an individual with a state-
ment of the intended use of the re-
quested information could compromise 
the existence of a confidential inves-
tigation, and may inhibit cooperation. 
(6) From subsection (e)(5) because the 
vast majority of these records come 
from local criminal justice agencies 
and it is administratively impossible 
to ensure that the records comply with 
this provision. Submitting agencies 
are, however, urged on a continuing 
basis to ensure that their records are 
accurate and include all dispositions. 
(7) From subsection (e)(8) because the 
notice requirements of this provision 
could present a serious impediment to 
law enforcement by revealing inves-
tigative techniques, procedures, and 
the existence of confidential investiga-
tions. 
[Order No. 8–82, 47 FR 44255, Oct. 7, 1982, as 
amended by Order No. 6–86, 51 FR 15479, Apr. 
24, 1986] 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00417 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR408 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.104 
§ 16.104 Exemption of Office of Special 
Counsel—Waco System. 
(a) The following system of records is 
exempted from subsections (c)(3) and 
(4); (d)(1), (2), (3), and (4); (e)(1), (2), (3), 
(5) and (8); and (g) of the Privacy Act 
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) and (k): 
CaseLink Document Database for Of-
fice of Special Counsel—Waco, JUS-
TICE/OSCW–001. These exemptions 
apply only to the extent that informa-
tion in a record is subject to exemption 
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) and (k). 
(b) Only that portion of this system 
which consists of criminal or civil in-
vestigatory information is exempted 
for the reasons set forth from the fol-
lowing subsections: 
(1) Subsection (c)(3). To provide the 
subject of a criminal or civil matter or 
case under investigation with an ac-
counting of disclosures of records con-
cerning him or her would inform that 
individual of the existence, nature, or 
scope of that investigation and thereby 
seriously impede law enforcement ef-
forts by permitting the record subject 
and other persons to whom he might 
disclose the records to avoid criminal 
penalties and civil remedies. 
(2) Subsection (c)(4). This subsection is 
inapplicable to the extent that an ex-
emption is being claimed for sub-
section (d). 
(3) Subsection (d)(1). Disclosure of in-
vestigatory information could interfere 
with the investigation, reveal the iden-
tity of confidential sources, and result 
in an unwarranted invasion of the pri-
vacy of others. 
(4) Subsection (d)(2). Amendment of 
the records would interfere with ongo-
ing criminal law enforcement pro-
ceedings and impose an impossible ad-
ministrative burden by requiring 
criminal investigations to be continu-
ously reinvestigated. 
(5) Subsections (d)(3) and (4). These 
subsections are inapplicable to the ex-
tent exemption is claimed from (d)(1) 
and (2). 
(6) Subsections (e)(1) and (5). It is often 
impossible to determine in advance if 
investigatory records contained in this 
system are accurate, relevant, timely 
and complete; but, in the interests of 
effective law enforcement, it is nec-
essary to retain this information to aid 
in establishing patterns of activity and 
provide leads in criminal investiga-
tions. 
(7) Subsection (e)(2). To collect infor-
mation from the subject individual 
would serve notice that he or she is the 
subject of criminal investigative or law 
enforcement activity and thereby 
present a serious impediment to law 
enforcement. 
(8) Subsection (e)(3). To inform indi-
viduals as required by this subsection 
would reveal the existence of an inves-
tigation and compromise law enforce-
ment efforts. 
(9) Subsection (e)(8). To serve notice 
would give persons sufficient warning 
to evade law enforcement efforts. 
(10) Subsection (g). This subsection is 
inapplicable to the extent that the sys-
tem is exempt from other specific sub-
sections of the Privacy Act. 
[Order No. 208–2000, 65 FR 75160, Dec. 1, 2000] 
§ 16.105 Exemption of Foreign Ter-
rorist Tracking Task Force System. 
(a) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a, subsections 
(c)(3), (d)(1), (2), (3) and (4), and (e)(1) 
and (4)(I): Flight Training Candidates 
File System (JUSTICE/FTTTF–001). 
This exemption applies only to the ex-
tent that information is subject to ex-
emption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1). 
(b) Exemption from the particular 
subsections is justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because 
making available to a record subject 
the accounting of disclosures could re-
veal information that is classified in 
the interest of national security. 
(2) From subsection (d)(1), (2), (3) and 
(4) because access to and amendment of 
certain portions of records within the 
system would tend to reveal or com-
promise information classified in the 
interest of national security. 
(3) From subsection (e)(1) because it 
is often impossible to determine in ad-
vance if information obtained will be 
relevant for the purposes of conducting 
the risk analysis for flight training 
candidates. 
(4) From subsection (e)(4)(I) to the 
extent that this subsection is inter-
preted to require more detail regarding 
the record sources in this system than 
have been published in the F
EDERAL 
REGISTER. Should the subsection be so 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00418 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR409 
Department of Justice § 16.106 
interpreted, exemption from this provi-
sion is necessary because greater speci-
ficity concerning the sources of these 
records could compromise national se-
curity. 
[Order No. 278–2002, 67 FR 51756, Aug. 9, 2002] 
§ 16.106 Exemption of the Bureau of 
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Ex-
plosives (ATF)—Limited Access. 
(a) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (4), 
(d)(1), (2), (3) and (4), (e)(1), (2), and (3), 
(e)(4)(G), (H) and (I), (e)(5) and (8), (f) 
and (g). 
(1) Criminal Investigation Report 
System (JUSTICE/ATF–003). 
(2) These exemptions apply only to 
the extent that information in this sys-
tem is subject to exemption pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2). Where compliance 
would not appear to interfere with or 
adversely affect the overall law en-
forcement process, ATF may waive the 
applicable exemption. 
(b) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because 
making available to a record subject 
the accounting of disclosures from 
records concerning him/her would re-
veal investigative interest not only of 
ATF, but also of the recipient agency. 
This would permit the record subject 
to take measures to impede the inves-
tigation, e.g., destroy evidence, intimi-
date potential witnesses or flee the 
area to avoid the thrust of the inves-
tigation. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) because an 
exemption being claimed for subsection 
(d) makes this subsection inapplicable. 
(3) From subsections (d)(1), (e)(4)(G) 
and (H), (f) and (g) because these provi-
sions concern individual access to in-
vestigative records, compliance with 
which could compromise sensitive in-
formation, interfere with the overall 
law enforcement process by revealing a 
pending sensitive investigation, pos-
sibly identify a confidential source or 
disclose information, including actual 
or potential tax information, which 
would constitute an unwarranted inva-
sion of another individual’s personal 
privacy, reveal a sensitive investiga-
tive technique, or constitute a poten-
tial danger to the health or safety of 
law enforcement personnel. 
(4) From subsection (d)(2) because, 
due to the nature of the information 
collected and the essential length of 
time it is maintained, to require ATF 
to amend information thought to be in-
correct, irrelevant or untimely, would 
create an impossible administrative 
and investigative burden by forcing the 
agency to continuously retrograde its 
investigations attempting to resolve 
questions of accuracy, etc. 
(5) From subsections (d)(3) and (4) be-
cause these subsections are inappli-
cable to the extent exemption is 
claimed from (d)(1) and (2). 
(6) From subsection (e)(1) because: (i) 
It is not possible in all instances to de-
termine relevancy or necessity of spe-
cific information in the early stages of 
a criminal or other investigation. 
(ii) Relevance and necessity are ques-
tions of judgment and timing; what ap-
pears relevant and necessary when col-
lected ultimately may be deemed un-
necessary. It is only after the informa-
tion is assessed that its relevancy and 
necessity in a specific investigative ac-
tivity can be established. 
(iii) In any investigation, ATF might 
obtain information concerning viola-
tions of law not under its jurisdiction, 
but in the interest of effective law en-
forcement, dissemination will be made 
to the agency charged with enforcing 
such law. 
(iv) In interviewing individuals or ob-
taining other forms of evidence during 
an investigation, information could be 
obtained, the nature of which would 
leave in doubt its relevancy and neces-
sity. Such information, however, could 
be relevant to another investigation or 
to an investigative activity under the 
jurisdiction of another agency. 
(7) From subsection (e)(2) because the 
nature of criminal and other investiga-
tive activities is such that vital infor-
mation about an individual can only be 
obtained from other persons who are 
familiar with such individual and his/ 
her activities. In such investigations it 
is not feasible to rely upon information 
furnished by the individual concerning 
his own activities. 
(8) From subsection (e)(3) because 
disclosure would provide the subject 
with substantial information that 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00419 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR410 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.106 
could impede or compromise the inves-
tigation. The individual could seriously 
interfere with undercover investigative 
activities and could take steps to evade 
the investigation or flee a specific 
area. 
(9) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because 
the categories of sources of the records 
in these systems have been published 
in the F
EDERAL REGISTER in broad ge-
neric terms in the belief that this is all 
that subsection (e)(4)(I) of the Act re-
quires. In the event, however, that this 
subsection should be interpreted to re-
quire more detail as to the identity of 
sources of the records in these systems, 
exemption from this provision is nec-
essary in order to protect the confiden-
tiality of the sources of criminal and 
other law enforcement information. 
Such exemption is further necessary to 
protect the privacy and physical safety 
of witnesses and informants. 
(10) From subsection (e)(5) because in 
the collection of information for law 
enforcement purposes it is impossible 
to determine in advance what informa-
tion is accurate, relevant, timely and 
complete. With the passage of time, 
seemingly irrelevant or untimely infor-
mation may acquire new significance 
as further investigation brings new de-
tails to light. The restrictions imposed 
by subsection (e)(5) would restrict the 
ability of trained investigators and in-
telligence analysts to exercise their 
judgment in reporting on investiga-
tions and impede the development of 
criminal intelligence necessary for ef-
fective law enforcement. 
(11) From subsection (e)(8) because 
the notice requirements of this provi-
sion could seriously interfere with a 
law enforcement activity by alerting 
the subject of a criminal or other in-
vestigation of existing investigative in-
terest. 
(c) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d)(1), 
(2), (3) and (4), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H) and 
(I), and (f). 
(1) Internal Security Record System 
(JUSTICE/ATF–006). 
(2) These exemptions apply only to 
the extent that information in this sys-
tem is subject to exemption pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and (k)(5). Where 
compliance would not appear to inter-
fere with or adversely affect the over-
all law enforcement process, ATF may 
waive the applicable exemption. 
(d) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because to 
provide the subject with an accounting 
of disclosures of records in this system 
could inform that individual of the ex-
istence, nature, or scope of an actual or 
potential law enforcement investiga-
tion, and thereby seriously impede law 
enforcement efforts by permitting the 
record subject and other persons to 
whom he might disclose the records to 
avoid criminal penalties, civil rem-
edies, or other measures. 
(2) From subsection (d)(1) because 
disclosure of records in the system 
could reveal the identity of confiden-
tial sources and result in an unwar-
ranted invasion of the privacy of oth-
ers. Disclosure may also reveal infor-
mation relating to actual or potential 
criminal investigations. Such breaches 
would restrict the free flow of informa-
tion which is vital to the law enforce-
ment process and the determination of 
an applicant’s qualifications. 
(3) From subsection (d)(2) because, 
due to the nature of the information 
collected and the essential length of 
time it is maintained, to require ATF 
to amend information thought to be in-
correct, irrelevant or untimely, would 
create an impossible administrative 
and investigative burden by forcing the 
agency to continuously retrograde its 
investigations attempting to resolve 
questions of accuracy, etc. 
(4) From subsections (d)(3) and (4) be-
cause these subsections are inappli-
cable to the extent exemption is 
claimed from (d)(1) and (2). 
(5) From subsection (e)(1) because it 
is often impossible to determine in ad-
vance if investigative records con-
tained in this system are accurate, rel-
evant, timely, complete, or of some as-
sistance to either effective law enforce-
ment investigations, or to the deter-
mination of the qualifications and suit-
ability of an applicant. It also is nec-
essary to retain this information to aid 
in establishing patterns of activity and 
provide investigative leads. Informa-
tion that may appear irrelevant, when 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00420 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR411 
Department of Justice § 16.106 
combined with other apparently irrele-
vant information, can on occasion pro-
vide a composite picture of a subject or 
an applicant which assists the law en-
forcement process and the determina-
tion of an applicant’s suitability quali-
fications. 
(6) From subsection (e)(4)(G) and (H), 
and (f) because these provisions con-
cern individual access to investigative 
records, compliance with which could 
compromise sensitive information, 
interfere with the overall law enforce-
ment or qualification process by re-
vealing a pending sensitive investiga-
tion, possibly identify a confidential 
source or disclose information which 
would constitute an unwarranted inva-
sion of another individual’s personal 
privacy, reveal a sensitive investiga-
tive technique, or constitute a poten-
tial danger to the health or safety of 
law enforcement personnel. In addi-
tion, disclosure of information col-
lected pursuant to an employment 
suitability or similar inquiry could re-
veal the identity of a source who pro-
vided information under an express 
promise of confidentiality, or could 
compromise the objectivity or fairness 
of a testing or examination process. 
(7) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because 
the categories of sources of the records 
in these systems have been published 
in the F
EDERAL REGISTER in broad ge-
neric terms in the belief that this is all 
that subsection (e)(4)(I) of the Act re-
quires. In the event, however, that this 
subsection should be interpreted to re-
quire more detail as to the identity of 
sources of the records in these systems, 
exemption from this provision is nec-
essary in order to protect the confiden-
tiality of the sources of criminal and 
other law enforcement information. 
Such exemption is further necessary to 
protect the privacy and physical safety 
of witnesses and informants. 
(e) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d)(1), 
(2), (3) and (4), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H) and 
(I), and (f). 
(1) Personnel Record System (JUS-
TICE/ATF–007). 
(2) These exemptions apply only to 
the extent that information in this sys-
tem is subject to exemption pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5). Where compli-
ance would not appear to interfere with 
or adversely affect the overall law en-
forcement process, ATF may waive the 
applicable exemption. 
(f) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because 
making available to a record subject 
the accounting of disclosures from 
records concerning him/her would re-
veal the existence, nature, or scope of 
an actual or potential personnel ac-
tion. This would permit the record sub-
ject to take measures to hamper or im-
pede such actions. 
(2) From subsections (d)(1), (e)(4)(G) 
and (H), and (f) because many persons 
are contacted who, without an assur-
ance of anonymity, refuse to provide 
information concerning a candidate for 
a position with ATF. Access could re-
veal the identity of the source of the 
information and constitute a breach of 
the promise of confidentiality on the 
part of ATF. Such breaches ultimately 
would restrict the free flow of informa-
tion vital to a determination of a can-
didate’s qualifications and suitability. 
(3) From subsection (d)(2) because, 
due to the nature of the information 
collected and the essential length of 
time it is maintained, to require ATF 
to amend information thought to be in-
correct, irrelevant or untimely, would 
create an impossible administrative 
and investigative burden by forcing the 
agency to continuously retrograde its 
investigations attempting to resolve 
questions of accuracy, etc. 
(4) From subsections (d)(3) and (4) be-
cause these subsections are inappli-
cable to the extent exemption is 
claimed from (d)(1) and (2). 
(5) From subsection (e)(1) because: 
(i) It is not possible in all instances 
to determine relevancy or necessity of 
specific information in the early stages 
of a personnel-related action. 
(ii) Relevance and necessity are ques-
tions of judgment and timing; what ap-
pears relevant and necessary when col-
lected ultimately may be deemed un-
necessary. It is only after the informa-
tion is assessed that its relevancy and 
necessity in a specific investigative ac-
tivity can be established. 
(iii) ATF might obtain information 
concerning violations of law not under 
its jurisdiction, but in the interest of 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00421 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR412 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.106 
effective law enforcement, dissemina-
tion will be made to the agency 
charged with enforcing such law. 
(iv) In interviewing individuals or ob-
taining other forms of evidence during 
an investigation, information could be 
obtained, the nature of which would 
leave in doubt its relevancy and neces-
sity. Such information, however, could 
be relevant to another investigation or 
to an investigative activity under the 
jurisdiction of another agency. 
(6) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because 
the categories of sources of the records 
in these systems have been published 
in the F
EDERAL REGISTER in broad ge-
neric terms in the belief that this is all 
that subsection (e)(4)(I) of the Act re-
quires. In the event, however, that this 
subsection should be interpreted to re-
quire more detail as to the identity of 
sources of the records in these systems, 
exemption from this provision is nec-
essary in order to protect the confiden-
tiality of the sources of criminal and 
other law enforcement information. 
Such exemption is further necessary to 
protect the privacy and physical safety 
of witnesses and informants. 
(g) The following systems of records 
are exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), 
(d)(1), (2), (3) and (4), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H) 
and (I), and (f). 
(1) Regulatory Enforcement Record 
System (JUSTICE/ATF–008). 
(2) Technical and Scientific Services 
Record System (JUSTICE/ATF–009). 
(3) These exemptions apply only to 
the extent that information in this sys-
tem is subject to exemption pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). Where compli-
ance would not appear to interfere with 
or adversely affect the overall law en-
forcement process, ATF may waive the 
applicable exemption. 
(h) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because 
making available to a record subject 
the accounting of disclosures from 
records concerning him/her would re-
veal investigative interest, whether 
civil, criminal or regulatory, not only 
of ATF, but also of the recipient agen-
cy. This would permit the record sub-
ject to take measures to impede the in-
vestigation, e.g., destroy evidence, in-
timidate potential witnesses or flee the 
area to avoid the thrust of the inves-
tigation thus seriously hampering the 
regulatory and law enforcement func-
tions of ATF. 
(2) From subsections (d)(1), (e)(4)(G) 
and (H), and (f) because these provi-
sions concern individual access to in-
vestigative and compliance records, 
disclosure of which could compromise 
sensitive information, interfere with 
the overall law enforcement and regu-
latory process by revealing a pending 
sensitive investigation, possibly iden-
tify a confidential source or disclose 
information, including actual or poten-
tial tax information, which would con-
stitute an unwarranted invasion of an-
other individual’s personal privacy, re-
veal a sensitive investigative tech-
nique, or constitute a potential danger 
to the health or safety of law enforce-
ment personnel. 
(3) From subsection (d)(2) because, 
due to the nature of the information 
collected and the essential length of 
time it is maintained, to require ATF 
to amend information thought to be in-
correct, irrelevant or untimely, would 
create an impossible administrative 
and investigative burden by forcing the 
agency to continuously retrograde its 
investigations and compliance actions 
attempting to resolve questions of ac-
curacy, etc. 
(4) From subsections (d)(3) and (4) be-
cause these subsections are inappli-
cable to the extent exemption is 
claimed from (d)(1) and (2). 
(5) From subsection (e)(1) because: 
(i) It is not possible in all instances 
to determine relevancy or necessity of 
specific information in the early stages 
of a criminal, civil, regulatory, or 
other investigation. 
(ii) Relevance and necessity are ques-
tions of judgment and timing; what ap-
pears relevant and necessary when col-
lected ultimately may be deemed un-
necessary. It is only after the informa-
tion is assessed that its relevancy and 
necessity in a specific investigative or 
regulatory activity can be established. 
(iii) In any investigation or compli-
ance action ATF might obtain informa-
tion concerning violations of law not 
under its jurisdiction, but in the inter-
est of effective law enforcement, dis-
semination will be made to the agency 
charged with enforcing such law. 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00422 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR413 
Department of Justice § 16.130 
(iv) In interviewing individuals or ob-
taining other forms of evidence during 
an investigation, information could be 
obtained, the nature of which would 
leave in doubt its relevancy and neces-
sity. Such information, however, could 
be relevant to another investigation or 
compliance action or to an investiga-
tive activity under the jurisdiction of 
another agency. 
(6) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because 
the categories of sources of the records 
in these systems have been published 
in the F
EDERAL REGISTER in broad ge-
neric terms in the belief that this is all 
that subsection (e)(4)(I) of the Act re-
quires. In the event, however, that this 
subsection should be interpreted to re-
quire more detail as to the identity of 
sources of the records in these systems, 
exemption from this provision is nec-
essary in order to protect the confiden-
tiality of the sources of criminal, regu-
latory, and other law enforcement in-
formation. Such exemption is further 
necessary to protect the privacy and 
physical safety of witnesses and in-
formants. 
[Order No. 002–2003, 68 FR 3393, Jan. 24, 2003] 
§ 16.130 Exemption of Department of 
Justice Systems: Correspondence 
Management Systems for the De-
partment of Justice (DOJ-003); 
Freedom of Information Act, Pri-
vacy Act and Mandatory Declas-
sification Review Requests and Ad-
ministrative Appeals for the De-
partment of Justice (DOJ-004). 
(a) The following Department of Jus-
tice systems of records are exempted 
from subsections (c)(3) and (4); (d)(1), 
(2), (3) and (4); (e)(1), (2), (3), (5) and (8); 
and (g) of the Privacy Act pursuant to 
5 U.S.C. 552a(j) and (k). These exemp-
tions apply only to the extent that in-
formation in a record is subject to ex-
emption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) 
and (k). 
(1) Correspondence Management Sys-
tems (CMS) for the Department of Jus-
tice (DOJ), DOJ/003. 
(2) Freedom of Information Act, Pri-
vacy Act, and Mandatory Declassifica-
tion Review Requests and Administra-
tive Appeals for the Department of 
Justice (DOJ), DOJ/004. 
(b) These systems are exempted for 
the reasons set forth from the fol-
lowing subsections: 
(1) Subsection (c)(3). To provide the 
subject of a criminal, civil, or counter-
intelligence matter or case under in-
vestigation with an accounting of dis-
closures of records concerning him or 
her could inform that individual of the 
existence, nature, or scope of that in-
vestigation, and thereby seriously im-
pede law enforcement or counterintel-
ligence efforts by permitting the 
record subject and other persons to 
whom he might disclose the records to 
avoid criminal penalties, civil rem-
edies, or counterintelligence measures. 
(2) Subsection (c)(4). This subsection is 
inapplicable to the extent that an ex-
emption is being claimed for sub-
section (d). 
(3) Subsection (d)(1). Disclosure of in-
vestigatory information could interfere 
with the investigation, reveal the iden-
tity of confidential sources, and result 
in an unwarranted invasion of the pri-
vacy of others. Disclosure of classified 
national security information would 
cause damage to the national security 
of the United States. 
(4) Subsection (d)(2). Amendment of 
the records would interfere with ongo-
ing criminal or civil law enforcement 
proceedings and impose an impossible 
administrative burden by requiring in-
vestigations to be continuously re-
investigated. 
(5) Subsections (d)(3) and (4). These 
subsections are inapplicable to the ex-
tent exemption is claimed from (d)(1) 
and (2). 
(6) Subsection (e)(1). It is often impos-
sible to determine in advance if inves-
tigatory records contained in this sys-
tem are accurate, relevant, timely and 
complete, but, in the interests of effec-
tive law enforcement and counterintel-
ligence, it is necessary to retain this 
information to aid in establishing pat-
terns of activity and provide investiga-
tive leads. 
(7) Subsection (e)(2). To collect infor-
mation from the subject individual 
could serve notice that he or she is the 
subject of a criminal investigation and 
thereby present a serious impediment 
to such investigations. 
(8) Subsection (e)(3). To inform indi-
viduals as required by this subsection 
could reveal the existence of a criminal 
investigation and compromise inves-
tigative efforts. 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00423 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR414 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.131 
(9) Subsection (e)(5). It is often impos-
sible to determine in advance if inves-
tigatory records contained in this sys-
tem are accurate, relevant, timely and 
complete, but, in the interests of effec-
tive law enforcement, it is necessary to 
retain this information to aid in estab-
lishing patterns of activity and provide 
investigative leads. 
(10) Subsection (e)(8). To serve notice 
could give persons sufficient warning 
to evade investigative efforts. 
(11) Subsection (g). This subsection is 
inapplicable to the extent that the sys-
tem is exempt from other specific sub-
sections of the Privacy Act. 
[Order No. 241–2001, 66 FR 41445, Aug. 8, 2001; 
66 FR 43308, Aug. 17, 2001] 
§ 16.131 Exemption of Department of 
Justice (DOJ)/Nationwide Joint 
Automated Booking System (JABS), 
DOJ-005. 
(a) The following system of records is 
exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (4), 
(d), (e)(1), (2), (3), (4)(G) and (H), (e)(5) 
and (8), (f) and (g): Nationwide Joint 
Automated Booking System, Justice/ 
DOJ-005. These exemptions apply only 
to the extent that information in the 
system is subject to exemption pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) and (k)(2). 
Where compliance would not interfere 
with or adversely affect the law en-
forcement process, the DOJ may waive 
the exemptions, either partially or to-
tally. 
(b) Exemption from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsections (c)(3), (c)(4), and 
(d) to the extent that access to records 
in this system of records may impede 
or interfere with law enforcement ef-
forts, result in the disclosure of infor-
mation that would constitute an un-
warranted invasion of the personal pri-
vacy of collateral record subjects or 
other third parties, and/or jeopardize 
the health and/or safety of third par-
ties. 
(2) From subsection (e)(1) to the ex-
tent that it is necessary to retain all 
information in order not to impede, 
compromise, or interfere with law en-
forcement efforts, e.g., where the sig-
nificance of the information may not 
be readily determined and/or where 
such information may provide leads or 
assistance to Federal and other law en-
forcement agencies in discharging 
their law enforcement responsibilities. 
(3) From subsection (e)(2) because, in 
some instances, the application of this 
provision would present a serious im-
pediment to law enforcement since it 
may be necessary to obtain and verify 
information from a variety to sources 
other than the record subject to ensure 
safekeeping, security, and effective law 
enforcement. For example, it maybe 
necessary that medical and psychiatric 
personnel provide information regard-
ing the subject’s behavior, physical. 
health, or mental stability, etc. to en-
sure proper care while in custody, or it 
may be necessary to obtain informa-
tion from a case agent or the court to 
ensure proper disposition of the subject 
individual. 
(4) From subsection (e)(3) because the 
requirement that agencies inform each 
individual whom it asks to supply in-
formation of such information as is re-
quired by subsection (e)(3) may, in 
some cases, impede the information 
gathering process or otherwise inter-
fere with or compromise law enforce-
ment efforts, e.g., the subject may de-
liberately withhold information, or 
give erroneous information. 
(5) From subsection (4)(G) and(H) be-
cause the application of these provi-
sions would present a serious impedi-
ment to law enforcement efforts. 
(6) From subsection (e)(5) because in 
the collection of information for law 
enforcement purposes it is impossible 
to determine in advance what informa-
tion is accurate, relevant, timely and 
complete. With the passage of time, 
seemingly irrelevant or untimely infor-
mation may acquire new significance 
and the accuracy of such information 
can only be determined in a court of 
law. The restrictions imposed by sub-
section (e)(5) would restrict the ability 
to collect information for law enforce-
ment purposes, may prevent the even-
tual development of the necessary 
criminal intelligence, or otherwise im-
pede law enforcement or delay trained 
law enforcement personnel from timely 
exercising their judgment in managing 
the arrestee. 
(7) From subsection (e)(8) to the ex-
tent that such notice may impede, 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00424 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR415 
Department of Justice § 16.132 
interfere with, or otherwise com-
promise law enforcement and security 
efforts. 
(8) From subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(f) to 
the extent that compliance with the re-
quirement for procedures providing in-
dividual access to records, compliance 
could impede, compromise, or interfere 
with law enforcement efforts. 
(9) From subsection (g) to the extent 
that this system is exempt from the ac-
cess and amendment provisions of sub-
section (d). 
[Order No. 242–2001, 66 FR 41445, Aug. 8, 2001; 
66 FR 44308, Aug. 17, 2001] 
§ 16.132 Exemption of Department of 
Justice System—Personnel Inves-
tigation and Security Clearance 
Records for the Department of Jus-
tice (DOJ), DOJ-006. 
(a) The following Department of Jus-
tice system of records is exempted 
from subsections (c)(3) and (4); (d)(1), 
(2), (3) and (4); (e)(1),(2),(3),(5) and (8); 
and (g) of the Privacy Act pursuant to 
5 U.S.C. 552a(j) and (k): Personnel In-
vestigation and Security Clearance 
Records for the Department of Justice 
(DOJ), DOJ-006. These exemptions 
apply only to the extent that informa-
tion in a record is subject to exemption 
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) and (k). 
(b) Exemption from the particular 
subsections is justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) Subsection (c)(3). To provide the 
subject with an accounting of disclo-
sures of records in this system could 
inform that individual of the existence, 
nature, or scope of an actual or poten-
tial law enforcement or counterintel-
ligence investigation, and thereby seri-
ously impede law enforcement or coun-
terintelligence efforts by permitting 
the record subject and other persons to 
whom he might disclose the records to 
avoid criminal penalties, civil rem-
edies, or counterintelligence measures. 
(2) Subsection (c)(4). This subsection is 
inapplicable to the extent that an ex-
emption is being claimed for sub-
section (d). 
(3) Subsection (d)(1). Disclosure of 
records in the system could reveal the 
identity of confidential sources and re-
sult in an unwarranted invasion of the 
privacy of others. Disclosure may also 
reveal information relating to actual 
or potential criminal investigations. 
Disclosure of classified national secu-
rity information would cause damage 
to the national security of the United 
States. 
(4) Subsection (d)(2). Amendment of 
the records could interfere with ongo-
ing criminal or civil law enforcement 
proceedings and impose an impossible 
administrative burden by requiring in-
vestigations to be continuously re-
investigated. 
(5) Subsections (d)(3) and (4). These 
subsections are inapplicable to the ex-
tent exemption is claimed from (d)(1) 
and (2). 
(6) Subsection (e)(1). It is often impos-
sible to determine in advance if inves-
tigatory records contained in this sys-
tem are accurate, relevant, timely and 
complete, but, in the interests of effec-
tive law enforcement and counterintel-
ligence, it is necessary to retain this 
information to aid in establishing pat-
terns of activity and provide investiga-
tive leads. 
(7) Subsection (e)(2). To collect infor-
mation from the subject individual 
could serve notice that he or she is the 
subject of a criminal investigation and 
thereby present a serious impediment 
to such investigations. 
(8) Subsection (e)(3). To inform indi-
viduals as required by this subsection 
could reveal the existence of a criminal 
investigation and compromise inves-
tigative efforts. 
(9) Subsection (e)(5). It is often impos-
sible to determine in advance if inves-
tigatory records contained in this sys-
tem are accurate, relevant, timely and 
complete, but, in the interests of effec-
tive law enforcement, it is necessary to 
retain this information to aid in estab-
lishing patterns of activity and provide 
investigative leads. 
(10) Subsection (e)(8). To serve notice 
could give persons sufficient warning 
to evade investigative efforts. 
(11) Subsection (g). This subsection is 
inapplicable to the extent that the sys-
tem is exempt from other specific sub-
sections of the Privacy Act. 
[Order No. 297–2002, 67 FR 70163, Nov. 21, 2002] 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00425 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR416 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.133 
§ 16.133 Exemption of Department of 
Justice Regional Data Exchange 
System (RDEX), DOJ–012. 
(a) The Department of Justice Re-
gional Data Exchange System (RDEX), 
DOJ–012, is exempted from subsections 
(c)(3) and (4); (d)(1), (2), (3), and (4); 
(e)(1), (2), (3), (5), and (8); and (g) of the 
Privacy Act pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
552a(j)(2). These exemptions apply only 
to the extent that information in a 
record is subject to exemption pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2). 
(b) This system is exempted from the 
following subsections for the reasons 
set forth below: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because 
making available to a record subject 
the accounting of disclosures of crimi-
nal law enforcement records con-
cerning him or her could inform that 
individual of the existence, nature, or 
scope of an investigation, or could oth-
erwise seriously impede law enforce-
ment efforts. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) because 
this system is exempt from subsections 
(d)(1), (2), (3), and (4). 
(3) From subsection (d)(1) because 
disclosure of criminal law enforcement 
information could interfere with an in-
vestigation, reveal the identity of con-
fidential sources, and result in an un-
warranted invasion of the privacy of 
others. 
(4) From subsection (d)(2) because 
amendment of the records would inter-
fere with ongoing criminal law enforce-
ment proceedings and impose an im-
possible administrative burden by re-
quiring investigations to be continu-
ously reinvestigated. 
(5) From subsections (d)(3) and (4) be-
cause these subsections are inappli-
cable to the extent that exemption is 
claimed from subsections (d)(1) and (2). 
(6) From subsection (e)(1) because it 
is often impossible to determine in ad-
vance if criminal law enforcement 
records contained in this system are 
relevant and necessary, but, in the in-
terests of effective law enforcement, it 
is necessary to retain this information 
to aid in establishing patterns of activ-
ity and provide investigative leads. 
(7) From subsection (e)(2) because 
collecting information from the sub-
ject individual could serve notice that 
he or she is the subject of a criminal 
law enforcement matter and thereby 
present a serious impediment to law 
enforcement efforts. Further, because 
of the nature of criminal law enforce-
ment matters, vital information about 
an individual frequently can be ob-
tained only from other persons who are 
familiar with the individual and his or 
her activities and it often is not prac-
ticable to rely on information provided 
directly by the individual. 
(8) From subsection (e)(3) because in-
forming individuals as required by this 
subsection could reveal the existence 
of a criminal law enforcement matter 
and compromise criminal law enforce-
ment efforts. 
(9) From subsection (e)(5) because it 
is often impossible to determine in ad-
vance if criminal law enforcement 
records contained in this system are 
accurate, relevant, timely, and com-
plete, but, in the interests of effective 
law enforcement, it is necessary to re-
tain this information to aid in estab-
lishing patterns of activity and obtain-
ing investigative leads. 
(10) From subsection (e)(8) because 
serving notice could give persons suffi-
cient warning to evade criminal law 
enforcement efforts. 
(11) From subsection (g) to the extent 
that this system is exempt from other 
specific subsections of the Privacy Act. 
[Order No. 007–2005, 70 FR 49870, Aug. 25, 2005] 
§ 16.134 Exemption of Debt Collection 
Enforcement System, Justice/DOJ– 
016. 
(a) The following system of records is 
exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) 
from subsections (c)(3) and (4); (d)(1), 
(2), (3), and (4); (e)(1), (2), (3), (4)(G), (H) 
and (I), (5) and (8); (f) and (g) of the Pri-
vacy Act. In addition, the system is ex-
empt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) 
from subsections (c)(3); (d)(1), (2), (3), 
and (4); (e)(1); (4)(G), (H), and (I); and 
(f). These exemptions apply only to the 
extent that information in this system 
is subject to exemption pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) or (k)(2). Where com-
pliance would not appear to interfere 
with or adversely affect the law en-
forcement purposes of this system, or 
the overall law enforcement process, 
the applicable exemption may be 
waived by the DOJ in its sole discre-
tion. 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00426 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR417 
Department of Justice § 16.135 
(b) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3), the re-
quirement that an accounting be made 
available to the named subject of a 
record, because certain records in this 
system are exempt from the access pro-
visions of subsection (d). Also, because 
making available to a record subject 
the accounting of disclosures from 
records concerning him/her would spe-
cifically reveal any investigative inter-
est in the individual. Revealing this in-
formation may thus compromise ongo-
ing law enforcement efforts. Revealing 
this information may also permit the 
record subject to take measures to im-
pede the investigation, such as destroy-
ing evidence, intimidating potential 
witnesses or fleeing the area to avoid 
the investigation. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) notifica-
tion requirements because certain 
records in this system are exempt from 
the access and amendment provisions 
of subsection (d) as well as the access 
to accounting of disclosures provision 
of subsection (c)(3). 
(3) From subsections (d)(1), (2), (3), 
and (4) because access to the records 
contained in this system might com-
promise ongoing investigations, reveal 
confidential informants, or constitute 
unwarranted invasions of the personal 
privacy of third parties who are in-
volved in a certain investigation. 
Amendment of the records would inter-
fere with ongoing debt collection inves-
tigations or other law enforcement pro-
ceedings and impose an impossible ad-
ministrative burden by requiring inves-
tigations to be continuously reinves-
tigated. 
(4) From subsection (e)(1) because it 
is not always possible to know in ad-
vance what information is relevant and 
necessary for law enforcement pur-
poses. 
(5) From subsection (e)(2) to avoid 
impeding law enforcement efforts asso-
ciated with debt collection by putting 
the subject of an investigation on no-
tice of that fact, thereby permitting 
the subject to engage in conduct in-
tended to frustrate or impede that in-
vestigation. 
(6) From subsection (e)(3) to avoid 
impeding law enforcement efforts in 
conjunction with debt collection by 
putting the subject of an investigation 
on notice of that fact, thereby permit-
ting the subject to engage in conduct 
intended to frustrate or impede that 
investigation. 
(7) From subsection (e)(4)(G), (H) and 
(I) because portions of this system are 
exempt from the access provisions of 
subsection (d) pursuant to subsections 
(j) and (k) of the Privacy Act. 
(8) From subsection (e)(5) because 
many of the records in this system are 
records contributed by other agencies 
and the restrictions imposed by (e)(5) 
would limit the utility of the system. 
(9) From subsection (e)(8), because to 
require individual notice of disclosure 
of information due to compulsory legal 
process would pose an impossible ad-
ministrative burden on the DOJ and 
may alert the subjects of law enforce-
ment investigations, who might be oth-
erwise unaware, to the fact of those in-
vestigations. 
(10) From subsections (f) and (g) to 
the extent that the system is exempt 
from other specific subsections of the 
Privacy Act. 
[Order No. 009–2012, 77 FR 23117, Apr. 18, 2012] 
§ 16.135 Exemptions of Executive Of-
fice for Organized Crime Drug En-
forcement Task Forces Systems. 
(a) The following systems of records 
are exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and 
(4); (d)(1), (2), (3), and (4); (e)(1), (2), (3), 
(4)(G), (H), and (I), (5), and (8); (f); and 
(g): 
(1) The Organized Crime Drug En-
forcement Task Forces Management 
Information System (OCDETF MIS) 
(JUSTICE/OCDETF–001); and 
(2) The Organized Crime Drug En-
forcement Task Force Fusion Center 
and International Organized Crime In-
telligence and Operations Center Sys-
tem (JUSTICE/OCDETF–002). 
(b) These exemptions apply only to 
the extent that information is subject 
to exemption under 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) and/ 
or (k). 
(c) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because to 
provide the subject with an accounting 
of disclosures of records in these sys-
tems could inform that individual of 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00427 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR418 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.135 
the existence, nature, or scope of an ac-
tual or potential law enforcement or 
counterintelligence investigation by 
the Organized Crime Drug Enforcement 
Task Forces, the Organized Crime Drug 
Enforcement Task Force Fusion Cen-
ter, the International Organized Crime 
Intelligence and Operations Center, or 
the recipient agency, and could permit 
that individual to take measures to 
avoid detection or apprehension, to 
learn of the identity of witnesses and 
informants, or to destroy evidence, and 
would therefore present a serious im-
pediment to law enforcement or coun-
terintelligence efforts. In addition, dis-
closure of the accounting would 
amount to notice to the individual of 
the existence of a record. Moreover, re-
lease of an accounting may reveal in-
formation that is properly classified 
pursuant to Executive Order. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) because 
this subsection is inapplicable to the 
extent that an exemption is being 
claimed for subsections (d)(1), (2), (3), 
and (4). 
(3) From subsection (d)(1) because 
disclosure of records in the system 
could alert the subject of an actual or 
potential criminal, civil, or regulatory 
violation of the existence of that inves-
tigation, of the nature and scope of the 
information and evidence obtained as 
to his or her activities, of the identity 
of confidential witnesses and inform-
ants, of the investigative interest of 
the Organized Crime Drug Enforcement 
Task Forces, the Organized Crime Drug 
Enforcement Task Force Fusion Cen-
ter, the International Organized Crime 
Intelligence and Operations Center, 
and other intelligence or law enforce-
ment agencies (including those respon-
sible for civil proceedings related to 
laws against drug trafficking or related 
financial crimes or international orga-
nized crime); could lead to the destruc-
tion of evidence, improper influencing 
of witnesses, fabrication of testimony, 
and/or flight of the subject; could re-
veal the details of a sensitive inves-
tigative or intelligence technique, or 
the identity of a confidential source; or 
could otherwise impede, compromise, 
or interfere with investigative efforts 
and other related law enforcement and/ 
or intelligence activities. In addition, 
disclosure could invade the privacy of 
third parties and/or endanger the life, 
health, and physical safety of law en-
forcement personnel, confidential in-
formants, witnesses, and potential 
crime victims. Access to records could 
also result in the release of informa-
tion properly classified pursuant to Ex-
ecutive Order. 
(4) From subsection (d)(2) because 
amendment of the records thought to 
be inaccurate, irrelevant, incomplete, 
or untimely would also interfere with 
ongoing investigations, criminal or 
civil law enforcement proceedings, and 
other law enforcement activities; 
would impose an impossible adminis-
trative burden by requiring investiga-
tions, analyses, and reports to be con-
tinuously reinvestigated and revised; 
and may impact information properly 
classified pursuant to Executive Order. 
(5) From subsections (d)(3) and (4) be-
cause these subsections are inappli-
cable to the extent that exemption is 
claimed from subsections (d)(1) and (2) 
and for the reasons stated in 
§ 16.135(c)(3) and (c)(4). 
(6) From subsection (e)(1) because, in 
the course of their acquisition, colla-
tion, and analysis of information under 
the statutory authority granted, the 
Organized Crime Drug Enforcement 
Task Forces, the Organized Crime Drug 
Enforcement Task Force Fusion Cen-
ter, and the International Organized 
Crime Intelligence and Operations Cen-
ter will occasionally obtain informa-
tion, including information properly 
classified pursuant to Executive Order, 
that concerns actual or potential viola-
tions of law that are not strictly with-
in their statutory or other authority or 
may compile and maintain information 
which may not be relevant to a specific 
investigation or prosecution. This is 
because it is impossible to determine 
in advance what information collected 
during an investigation or in support of 
these mission activities will be impor-
tant or crucial to an investigation. In 
the interests of effective law enforce-
ment, it is necessary to retain such in-
formation in these systems of records 
because it can aid in establishing pat-
terns of criminal activity of a suspect 
and can provide valuable leads for fed-
eral and other law enforcement agen-
cies. This consideration applies equally 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00428 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR419 
Department of Justice § 16.135 
to information acquired from, or col-
lated or analyzed for, both law enforce-
ment agencies and agencies of the U.S. 
foreign intelligence community and 
military community. 
(7) From subsection (e)(2) because in 
a criminal, civil, or regulatory inves-
tigation, prosecution, or proceeding, 
the requirement that information be 
collected to the greatest extent prac-
ticable from the subject individual 
would present a serious impediment to 
law enforcement because the subject of 
the investigation, prosecution, or pro-
ceeding would be placed on notice as to 
the existence and nature of the inves-
tigation, prosecution, or proceeding 
and would therefore be able to avoid 
detection or apprehension, to influence 
witnesses improperly, to destroy evi-
dence, or to fabricate testimony. More-
over, thorough and effective investiga-
tion and prosecution may require seek-
ing information from a number of dif-
ferent sources. 
(8) From subsection (e)(3) because to 
comply with the requirements of this 
subsection during the course of an in-
vestigation could impede the informa-
tion-gathering process, thus hampering 
the investigation or intelligence gath-
ering. Disclosure to an individual of in-
vestigative interest would put the sub-
ject on notice of that fact and allow 
the subject an opportunity to engage in 
conduct intended to impede that activ-
ity or avoid apprehension. Disclosure 
to other individuals would likewise put 
them on notice of what might still be a 
sensitive law enforcement interest and 
could result in the further intentional 
or accidental disclosure to the subject 
or other inappropriate recipients, con-
vey information that might constitute 
unwarranted invasions of the personal 
privacy of other persons, unnecessarily 
burden law enforcement personnel in 
information-collection activities, and 
chill the willingness of witnesses to co-
operate. 
(9) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) 
because this system is exempt from the 
access and amendment provisions of 
subsection (d). 
(10) From subsection (e)(4)(I) to the 
extent that this subsection could be in-
terpreted to require more detail re-
garding system record sources than has 
been published in the F
EDERAL REG-
ISTER. Should this subsection be so in-
terpreted, exemption from this provi-
sion is necessary to protect the sources 
of law enforcement and intelligence in-
formation and to protect the privacy 
and safety of witnesses and informants 
and other information sources. Fur-
ther, greater specificity could com-
promise other sensitive law enforce-
ment information, techniques, and 
processes. 
(11) From subsection (e)(5) because 
the acquisition, collation, and analysis 
of information for law enforcement 
purposes from various agencies does 
not permit a determination in advance 
or a prediction of what information 
will be matched with other information 
and thus whether it is accurate, rel-
evant, timely, and complete. With the 
passage of time, seemingly irrelevant 
or untimely information may acquire 
new significance as further investiga-
tion brings new details to light, and 
the accuracy of such information can 
often only be determined in a court of 
law. The restrictions imposed by sub-
section (e)(5) would restrict the ability 
of trained investigators, intelligence 
analysts, and government attorneys to 
exercise their judgment in collating 
and analyzing information and would 
impede the development of criminal or 
other intelligence necessary for effec-
tive law enforcement. 
(12) From subsection (e)(8) because 
the individual notice requirements 
could present a serious impediment to 
law enforcement by revealing inves-
tigative techniques, procedures, evi-
dence, or interest, and by interfering 
with the ability to issue warrants or 
subpoenas; could give persons suffi-
cient warning to evade investigative 
efforts; and would pose an unacceptable 
administrative burden on the mainte-
nance of these records and the conduct 
of the underlying investigations. 
(13) From subsections (f) and (g) be-
cause these subsections are inappli-
cable to the extent that the system is 
exempt from other specific subsections 
of the Privacy Act. 
[Order No. 006–2013, 78 FR 69754, Nov. 21, 2013; 
78 FR 77586, Dec. 24, 2013] 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00429 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR420 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.136 
§ 16.136 Exemption of the Department 
of Justice, Giglio Information Sys-
tem, Justice/DOJ–017. 
(a) The Department of Justice, Giglio 
Information Files (JUSTICE/DOJ–017) 
system of records is exempted from 
subsections (c)(3) and (4); (d)(1), (2), (3), 
and (4); (e)(1), (2), (3), (4)(G), (H), and 
(I), (5), and (8); (f); and (g) of the Pri-
vacy Act. These exemptions apply only 
to the extent that information in this 
system is subject to exemption pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) and/or (k). 
(b) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because 
this subsection is inapplicable to the 
extent that an exemption is being 
claimed for subsection (d). 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) because 
this subsection is inapplicable to the 
extent that an exemption is being 
claimed for subsection (d). 
(3) From subsection (d) because ac-
cess to the records contained in this 
system may interfere with or impede 
an ongoing investigation as it may be 
related to allegations against an agent 
or witness who is currently being in-
vestigated. Further, other records that 
are derivative of the subject’s employ-
ing agency files may be accessed 
through the employing agency’s files. 
(4) From subsection (e)(1) because it 
may not be possible to determine in ad-
vance if potential impeachment 
records collected and maintained in 
order to sufficiently meet the Depart-
ment’s Giglio requirements and obliga-
tions are all relevant and necessary. In 
order to ensure that the Department’s 
prosecutors and investigative agencies 
receive sufficient information to meet 
their obligations under Giglio, it is ap-
propriate to maintain potential im-
peachment information in accordance 
with Department policy as such 
records could later be relevant and nec-
essary in a different case in which the 
same witness or affiant subsequently 
testifies. 
(5) From subsection (e)(2) because 
collecting information directly from 
the subject individual could serve no-
tice that the individual is the subject 
of investigation and because of the na-
ture of the records in this system, 
which are used to impeach or dem-
onstrate bias of a witness, requires 
that the information be collected from 
others. 
(6) From subsection (e)(3) because 
federal law enforcement officers re-
ceive notice from their supervisors and 
prosecuting attorneys that impeach-
ment information may be used at trial. 
Law enforcement officers are also 
given notice by the Giglio decision 
itself. 
(7) From subsections (e)(4)(G), (H), 
and (I) because this system of records 
is exempt from the access and amend-
ment provisions of subsection (d). 
(8) From subsection (e)(5) because it 
may not be possible to determine in ad-
vance if all potential impeachment 
records collected and maintained in 
order to sufficiently meet the Depart-
ment’s Giglio requirements and obliga-
tions are all accurate, relevant, timely, 
and complete at the time of collection. 
Although the Department has policies 
in place to verify the records, the 
records may be originated from an-
other agency, third party, or open 
source media and it may be impossible 
to ensure the accuracy, relevance, 
timeliness, and completeness of poten-
tial impeachment information main-
tained prior to and during the process 
of being verified. 
(9) From subsection (e)(8) because the 
nature of the Giglio discovery process 
renders notice of compliance with the 
compulsory discovery process imprac-
tical. 
(10) From subsections (f) and (g) be-
cause these subsections are inappli-
cable to the extent that the system is 
exempt from other specific subsections 
of the Privacy Act. 
[Order No. 008–2015, 80 FR 34051, June 15, 2015] 
§ 16.137 Exemption of the Department 
of Justice Insider Threat Program 
Records—limited access. 
(a) The Department of Justice Insider 
Threat Program Records (JUSTICE/ 
DOJ–018) system of records is exempted 
from subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and 
(4); (d)(1), (2), (3) and (4); (e)(1), (2) and 
(3); (e)(4)(G), (H) and (I); (e)(5) and (8); 
(f) and (g) of the Privacy Act. These ex-
emptions apply only to the extent that 
information in this system is subject 
to exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
552a(j) or (k). Where DOJ determines 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00430 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR421 
Department of Justice § 16.137 
compliance would not appear to inter-
fere with or adversely affect the pur-
pose of this system to detect, deter, 
and/or mitigate insider threats, the ap-
plicable exemption may be waived by 
the DOJ in its sole discretion. 
(b) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3), the re-
quirement that an accounting be made 
available to the named subject of a 
record, because this system is exempt 
from the access provisions of sub-
section (d). Also, because making 
available to a record subject the ac-
counting of disclosures of records con-
cerning him/her would specifically re-
veal any insider threat-related interest 
in the individual by the DOJ or agen-
cies that are recipients of the disclo-
sures. Revealing this information could 
compromise ongoing, authorized law 
enforcement and intelligence efforts, 
particularly efforts to identify and/or 
mitigate insider threats. Revealing 
this information could also permit the 
record subject to obtain valuable in-
sight concerning the information ob-
tained during any investigation and to 
take measures to impede the investiga-
tion, e.g., destroy evidence or flee the 
area to avoid the investigation. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) notifica-
tion requirements because this system 
is exempt from the access and amend-
ment provisions of subsection (d) as 
well as the accounting of disclosures 
provision of subsection (c)(3). The DOJ 
takes seriously its obligation to main-
tain accurate records despite its asser-
tion of this exemption, and to the ex-
tent it, in its sole discretion, agrees to 
permit amendment or correction of 
DOJ records, it will share that infor-
mation in appropriate cases. 
(3) From subsection (d)(1), (2), (3) and 
(4), (e)(4)(G) and (H), (e)(8), (f) and (g) 
because these provisions concern indi-
vidual access to and amendment of law 
enforcement, intelligence and counter-
intelligence, and counterterrorism 
records, and compliance with these 
provisions could alert the subject of an 
authorized law enforcement or intel-
ligence activity about that particular 
activity and the interest of the DOJ 
and/or other law enforcement or intel-
ligence agencies. Providing access 
could compromise or lead to the com-
promise of information classified to 
protect national security; disclose in-
formation that would constitute an un-
warranted invasion of another’s per-
sonal privacy; reveal a sensitive inves-
tigative or intelligence technique; dis-
close or lead to disclosure of informa-
tion that would allow a subject to 
avoid detection or apprehension; or 
constitute a potential danger to the 
health or safety of law enforcement 
personnel, confidential sources, or wit-
nesses. 
(4) From subsection (e)(1) because it 
is not always possible to know in ad-
vance what information is relevant and 
necessary for law enforcement and in-
telligence purposes. The relevance and 
utility of certain information that may 
have a nexus to insider threats may 
not always be fully evident until and 
unless it is vetted and matched with 
other information necessarily and law-
fully maintained by the DOJ. 
(5) From subsection (e)(2) and (3) be-
cause application of these provisions 
could present a serious impediment to 
efforts to detect, deter and/or mitigate 
insider threats. Application of these 
provisions would put the subject of an 
investigation on notice of the inves-
tigation and allow the subject an op-
portunity to engage in conduct in-
tended to impede the investigative ac-
tivity or avoid apprehension. 
(6) From subsection (e)(4)(I), to the 
extent that this subsection is inter-
preted to require more detail regarding 
the record sources in this system than 
has been published in the F
EDERAL 
REGISTER. Should the subsection be so 
interpreted, exemption from this provi-
sion is necessary to protect the sources 
of law enforcement and intelligence in-
formation and to protect the privacy 
and safety of witnesses and informants 
and others who provide information to 
the DOJ. Further, greater specificity of 
sources of properly classified records 
could compromise national security. 
(7) From subsection (e)(5) because in 
the collection of information for au-
thorized law enforcement and intel-
ligence purposes, including efforts to 
detect, deter, and/or mitigate insider 
threats, due to the nature of investiga-
tions and intelligence collection, the 
DOJ often collects information that 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00431 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR422 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.138 
may not be immediately shown to be 
accurate, relevant, timely, and com-
plete, although the DOJ takes reason-
able steps to collect only the informa-
tion necessary to support its mission 
and investigations. Additionally, the 
information may aid DOJ in estab-
lishing patterns of activity and provide 
criminal or intelligence leads. It could 
impede investigative progress if it were 
necessary to assure relevance, accu-
racy, timeliness and completeness of 
all information obtained throughout 
the course and within the scope of an 
investigation. Further, some of the 
records in this system may come from 
other domestic or foreign government 
entities, or private entities, and it 
would not be administratively feasible 
for the DOJ to vouch for the compli-
ance of these agencies with this provi-
sion. 
[82 FR 43176, Sept. 14, 2017] 
§ 16.138 Exemption of the Department 
of Justice Information Technology, 
Information System, and Network 
Activity and Access Records, JUS-
TICE/DOJ–002. 
(a) The Department of Justice Infor-
mation Technology, Information Sys-
tem, and Network Activity and Access 
Records (JUSTICE/DOJ–002) system of 
records is exempted from subsections 
(c)(3); (d)(1), (2), (3) and (4); (e)(1), 
(e)(4)(G), (H), and (I); and (f) of the Pri-
vacy Act of 1974, as amended. The ex-
emptions in this paragraph (a) apply 
only to the extent that information in 
this system is subject to exemption 
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1) or (k)(2). 
The applicable exemption may be 
waived by the DOJ in its sole discre-
tion where DOJ determines compliance 
with the exempted provisions of the 
Act would not interfere with or ad-
versely affect the purpose of this sys-
tem of records to ensure that the De-
partment can track information sys-
tem access and implement information 
security protections commensurate 
with the risk and magnitude of harm 
that could result from the unauthor-
ized access, use, disclosure, disruption, 
modification, or destruction of DOJ in-
formation and DOJ information sys-
tems. 
(b) Exemptions from the particular 
subsections listed in paragraph (a) of 
this section are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From subsection (c)(3), the re-
quirement that an accounting be made 
available to the named subject of a 
record, because this system of records 
is exempt from the access provisions of 
subsection (d). Also, because making 
available to a record subject the ac-
counting of disclosures of records con-
cerning the subject would specifically 
reveal investigative interests in the 
records by the DOJ or other entities 
that are recipients of the disclosures. 
Revealing this information could com-
promise sensitive information classi-
fied in the interest of national secu-
rity, or interfere with the overall law 
enforcement process by revealing a 
pending sensitive cybersecurity inves-
tigation. Revealing this information 
could also permit the record subject to 
obtain valuable insight concerning the 
information obtained during any inves-
tigation and to take measures to im-
pede the investigation, e.g., destroy 
evidence or alter techniques to evade 
discovery. 
(2) From subsection (d)(1), (2), (3) and 
(4), (e)(4)(G) and (H), and (f) because 
these provisions concern individual ac-
cess to and amendment of records, 
compliance with which regarding cer-
tain law enforcement and classified 
records could alert the subject of an 
authorized law enforcement activity 
about that particular activity and the 
interest of the DOJ and/or other law 
enforcement or intelligence agencies. 
Providing access could compromise in-
formation classified to protect na-
tional security, or reveal sensitive cy-
bersecurity investigative techniques; 
provide information that would allow a 
subject to avoid detection; or con-
stitute a potential danger to the health 
or safety of law enforcement personnel 
or confidential sources. 
(3) From subsection (e)(1) because it 
is not always possible to know in ad-
vance what information is relevant and 
necessary for law enforcement and in-
telligence purposes. The relevance and 
utility of certain information that may 
have a nexus to cybersecurity threats 
may not always be fully evident until 
and unless it is vetted and matched 
with other information lawfully main-
tained by the DOJ or other entities. 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00432 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR423 
Department of Justice § 16.139 
(4) From subsection (e)(4)(I), to the 
extent that this subsection is inter-
preted to require more detail regarding 
the record sources in this system than 
has been published in the F
EDERAL 
REGISTER. Should the subsection be so 
interpreted, exemption from this provi-
sion is necessary to protect the sources 
of law enforcement and intelligence in-
formation. Further, greater specificity 
of sources of properly classified records 
could compromise national security. 
[CPCLO Order No. 010–2021, 86 FR 61689, Nov. 
8, 2021] 
§ 16.139 Exemption of the Department 
of Justice Data Protection Review 
Court Records System, JUSTICE/ 
OPCL–001. 
(a) The Department of Justice Data 
Protection Review Court system of 
records JUSTICE/OPCL–001 is exempt-
ed from subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) 
and (4); (d)(1), (2), (3) and (4); (e)(1), (2) 
and (3); (e)(4)(G), (H) and (I); (e)(5) and 
(8); (f) and (g) of the Privacy Act. These 
exemptions apply only to the extent 
that information in this system is sub-
ject to exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
552a(j) or (k). Where DOJ determines 
that compliance would not appear to 
interfere with or adversely affect the 
purpose of this system to address cer-
tain violations of United States law in 
the conduct of United States signals 
intelligence activities, and not inter-
fere with national security or law en-
forcement operations, the applicable 
exemption may be waived by the DOJ 
in its sole discretion. 
(b) Exemptions from these particular 
subsections are justified for the fol-
lowing reasons: 
(1) From the subsection (c)(3) (ac-
counting of disclosures) requirement 
that an accounting be made available 
to the named subject of a record, be-
cause this system is exempt from the 
access provisions of subsection (d). 
Where the individual is the subject of 
intelligence activities, to provide that 
individual with the disclosure account-
ing records would hinder authorized 
United States intelligence activities by 
informing that individual of the exist-
ence, nature, or scope of information 
that is properly classified pursuant to 
Executive Order 12958, as amended, and 
thereby cause damage to the national 
security. Revealing this information 
would also be contrary to Executive 
Order 14086 and could compromise on-
going, authorized law enforcement and 
intelligence efforts, particularly efforts 
to identify and/or mitigate national se-
curity threats. 
(2) From subsection (c)(4) (notice of 
amendment to record recipients) noti-
fication requirements because this sys-
tem is exempt from the access and 
amendment provisions of subsection (d) 
as well as the provision for making the 
accounting of disclosures available to 
an individual in subsection (c)(3). The 
DOJ takes seriously its obligation to 
maintain accurate records despite its 
assertion of this exemption, and to the 
extent it, in its sole discretion, agrees 
to permit amendment or correction of 
DOJ records, it will share that infor-
mation in appropriate cases. 
(3) From subsection (d)(1), (2), (3) and 
(4) (record subject’s right to access and 
amend records), (e)(4)(G) and (H) (publi-
cation of procedures for notifying sub-
jects of the existence of records about 
them and how they may access records 
and contest contents), (e)(8) (notice of 
compelled disclosures), (f) (agency 
rules for notifying subjects to the ex-
istence of records about them, for ac-
cessing and amending records, and for 
assessing fees) and (g) (civil remedies) 
because these provisions concern indi-
vidual access to and amendment of 
records containing national security, 
law enforcement, intelligence, counter-
intelligence and counterterrorism sen-
sitive information that could alert the 
subject of an authorized law enforce-
ment or intelligence activity about 
that particular activity and the inter-
est of the DOJ and/or other law en-
forcement or intelligence agencies in 
the subject. Providing access could 
compromise information classified to 
protect national security; disclose in-
formation that would constitute an un-
warranted invasion of another’s per-
sonal privacy; reveal a sensitive inves-
tigative or intelligence technique; pro-
vide information that would allow a 
subject to avoid detection or apprehen-
sion; or constitute a potential danger 
to the health or safety of law enforce-
ment personnel, confidential sources, 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00433 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR424 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.200 
witnesses, or other individuals. Never-
theless, DOJ has published notice con-
cerning notification, access, and con-
test procedures because it may in cer-
tain circumstances determine it appro-
priate to provide subjects access to all 
or a portion of the records about them 
in a system of records, particularly if 
information pertaining to the indi-
vidual has been declassified. 
(4) From subsection (e)(1) (maintain 
only relevant and necessary records) 
because the Data Protection Review 
Court (DPRC), in the course of receiv-
ing information pursuant to an appli-
cation for review, including the Office 
of the Director of National Intelligence 
(ODNI) Civil Liberties Protection Offi-
cer’s (CLPO) record of review, may re-
ceive records that are ultimately 
deemed irrelevant or unnecessary for 
the adjudication of the matter. Rel-
evance and necessity are questions of 
judgment and timing; what appears rel-
evant and necessary when collected ul-
timately may be deemed unnecessary. 
It is only after the information is as-
sessed that its relevancy and necessity 
can be established. Even if the records 
received are ultimately determined to 
be irrelevant or unnecessary to the ad-
judication of an application for review, 
the Office of Privacy and Civil Lib-
erties (OPCL) generally must neverthe-
less retain such records to maintain an 
accurate and complete record of the in-
formation reviewed by the DPRC. 
(5) From subsection (e)(2) (collection 
directly from the individual) and (3) 
(provide Privacy Act Statement to sub-
jects furnishing information). The 
DPRC will rely on records received 
from the ODNI CLPO, including 
records that the ODNI CLPO received 
from other elements of the Intelligence 
Community. The collection efforts of 
agencies that supply information ulti-
mately received by the DPRC would be 
thwarted if the agencies were required 
to collect information with the sub-
ject’s knowledge. Application of these 
provisions would put the subject of 
United States signals intelligence ac-
tivities on notice of the signals intel-
ligence activities and allow the subject 
an opportunity to engage in conduct 
intended to impede the investigative 
activity or avoid apprehension. 
(6) From subsection (e)(4)(I) (identi-
fying sources of records in the system 
of records), to the extent that this sub-
section is interpreted to require more 
detail regarding the record sources in 
this system than has been published in 
the F
EDERAL REGISTER. Should the sub-
section be so interpreted, exemption 
from this provision is necessary to pro-
tect disclosure of properly classified 
national security and law enforcement 
sensitive information. Further, greater 
specificity of sources of properly classi-
fied records could compromise national 
security. 
(7) From subsection (e)(5) (maintain 
timely, accurate, complete and up-to- 
date records) because many of the 
records in the system were derived 
from other domestic and foreign agen-
cy record systems over which DOJ ex-
ercises no control. It is often impos-
sible to determine in advance if intel-
ligence records contained in this sys-
tem are accurate, relevant, timely and 
complete, but in the interest of main-
taining a complete record of the infor-
mation reviewed by the DPRC in each 
case, it is necessary to retain this in-
formation. The restrictions imposed by 
subsection (e)(5) would impede develop-
ment of the record for review and limit 
the DPRC’s ability to exercise inde-
pendent judgment in the adjudication 
of applications for review. 
(8) Continue in effect and assert all 
exemptions claimed under 5 U.S.C. 
552a(j) or (k) by an originating agency 
from which DOJ obtains records where 
the purposes underlying the original 
exemption remain valid and necessary 
to protect the contents of the record. 
[88 FR 60585, Sept. 5, 2023] 
Subpart F—Public Observation of 
Parole Commission Meetings 
SOURCE: 42 FR 14713, Mar. 16, 1977, unless 
otherwise noted. 
§ 16.200 Definitions. 
As used in this part: 
(a) The term Commission means the 
U.S. Parole Commission and any sub-
division thereof authorized to act on 
its behalf. 
(b) The term meeting refers to the de-
liberations of at least the number of 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00434 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR425 
Department of Justice § 16.202 
1 Part 4a was removed at 44 FR 6890, Feb. 2, 
1979. 
Commissioners required to take action 
on behalf of the Commission where 
such deliberations determine or result 
in the joint conduct or disposition of 
official Commission business. 
(c) Specifically included in the term 
meeting are; 
(1) Meetings of the Commission re-
quired to be held by 18 U.S.C. 4203(a); 
(2) Special meetings of the Commis-
sion called pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 
4204(a)(1); 
(3) Meetings of the National Commis-
sioners in original jurisdiction cases 
pursuant to 28 CFR 2.17(a); 
(4) Meetings of the entire Commis-
sion to determine original jurisdiction 
appeal cases pursuant to 28 CFR 2.27; 
and 
(5) Meetings of the National Appeals 
Board pursuant to 28 CFR 2.26. 
(6) Meetings of the Commission to 
conduct a hearing on the record in con-
junction with applications for certifi-
cates of exemption under section 504(a) 
of the Labor-Management Reporting 
and Disclosure Act of 1959, and section 
411 of the Employee Retirement In-
come Security Act of 1974 (28 CFR 4.1– 
17 and 28 CFR 4a.1–17).
1 
(d) Specifically excluded from the 
term meeting are: 
(1) Determination made through 
independent voting of the Commis-
sioners without the joint deliberation 
of the number of Commissioners re-
quired to take such action, pursuant to 
§ 16.201; 
(2) Original jurisdiction cases deter-
mined by sequential vote pursuant to 
28 CFR 2.17; 
(3) Cases determined by sequential 
vote pursuant to 28 CFR 2.24 and 2.25; 
(4) National Appeals Board cases de-
termined by sequential vote pursuant 
to 28 CFR 2.26; 
(5) Meetings of special committees of 
Commissioners not constituting a 
quorum of the Commission, which may 
be established by the Chairman to re-
port and make recommendations to the 
Commission or the Chairman on any 
matter. 
(6) Determinations required or per-
mitted by these regulations to open or 
close a meeting, or to withhold or dis-
close documents or information per-
taining to a meeting. 
(e) All other terms used in this part 
shall be deemed to have the same 
meaning as identical terms used in 
chapter I, part 2 of this title. 
[42 FR 14713, Mar. 16, 1977, as amended at 43 
FR 4978, Feb. 7, 1978] 
§ 16.201 Voting by the Commissioners 
without joint deliberation. 
(a) Whenever the Commission’s 
Chairman so directs, any matter which 
(1) does not appear to require joint de-
liberation among the members of the 
Commission, or (2) by reason of its ur-
gency, cannot be scheduled for consid-
eration at a Commission meeting, may 
be disposed of by presentation of the 
matter separately to each of the mem-
bers of the Commission. After consider-
ation of the matter each Commission 
member shall report his vote to the 
Chairman. 
(b) Whenever any member of the 
Commission so requests, any matter 
presented to the Commissioners for dis-
position pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
this section shall be withdrawn and 
scheduled instead for consideration at 
a Commission meeting. 
(c) The provisions of § 16.206(a) of 
these rules shall apply in the case of 
any Commission determination made 
pursuant to this section. 
§ 16.202 Open meetings. 
(a) Every portion of every meeting of 
the Commission shall be open to public 
observation unless closed to the public 
pursuant to the provisions of § 16.203 
(Formal Procedure) or § 16.205 (Informal 
Procedure). 
(b) The attendance of any member of 
the public is conditioned upon the or-
derly demeanor of such person during 
the conduct of Commission business. 
The public shall be permitted to ob-
serve and to take notes, but unless 
prior permission is granted by the 
Commission, shall not be permitted to 
record or photograph by means of any 
mechanical or electronic device any 
portion of meetings which are open to 
the public. 
(c) The Commission shall be respon-
sible for arranging a suitable site for 
each open Commission meeting so that 
ample seating, visibility, and acoustics 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00435 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR426 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.203 
are provided to the public and ample 
security measures are employed for the 
protection of Commissioners and Staff. 
The Commission shall be responsible 
for recording or developing the minutes 
of Commission meetings. 
(d) Public notice of open meetings 
shall be given as prescribed in 
§ 16.204(a), and a record of votes kept 
pursuant to § 16.206(a). 
§ 16.203 Closed meetings—Formal pro-
cedure. 
(a) The Commission, by majority 
vote, may close to public observation 
any meeting or portion thereof, and 
withhold from the public announce-
ment concerning such meeting any in-
formation, if public observation or the 
furnishing of such information is likely 
to: 
(1) Disclose matters: 
(i) Specifically authorized under cri-
teria established by an executive order 
to be kept secret in the interests of na-
tional defense or foreign policy and 
(ii) In fact properly classified pursu-
ant to such executive order; 
(2) Relate solely to the internal per-
sonnel rules and practices of the Com-
mission or any agency of the Govern-
ment of the United States; 
(3) Disclose matters specifically ex-
empted from disclosure by statute 
(other than 5 U.S.C. 552, or the Federal 
Rules of Criminal Procedure): Provided, 
That such statute or rule (i) requires 
that the matters be withheld in such a 
manner as to leave no discretion on the 
issue, or (ii) establishes particular cri-
teria for withholding or refers to par-
ticular types of matters to be withheld, 
including exempted material under the 
Privacy Act of 1974 or the Commis-
sion’s Alternate Means of Access under 
the Privacy Act of 1974, as set forth at 
28 CFR 16.85; 
(4) Disclose a trade secret or commer-
cial or financial information obtained 
from any person, corporation, business, 
labor or pension organization, which is 
privileged or obtained upon a promise 
of confidentiality, including informa-
tion concerning the financial condition 
or funding of labor or pension organiza-
tions, or the financial condition of any 
individual, in conjunction with appli-
cations for exemption under 29 U.S.C. 
504 and 1111, and information con-
cerning income, assets and liabilities 
of inmates, and persons on supervision; 
(5) Involve accusing any person of a 
crime or formally censuring any per-
son; 
(6) Disclose information of a personal 
nature, where disclosure would con-
stitute a clearly unwarranted invasion 
of personal privacy; 
(7) Disclose an investigatory record 
compiled for law enforcement purposes, 
or information derived from such a 
record, which describes the criminal 
history or associations of any person 
under the Commission’s jurisdiction or 
which describes the involvement of any 
person in the commission of a crime, 
but only to the extent that the produc-
tion of such records or information 
would: 
(i) Interfere with enforcement pro-
ceedings; 
(ii) Deprive a person of a right to a 
fair trail or an impartial adjudication; 
(iii) Constitute an unwarranted inva-
sion of personal privacy; 
(iv) Disclose the identity of a con-
fidential source and, in the case of a 
record compiled by a criminal law en-
forcement authority in the course of a 
criminal investigation, or an agency 
conducting a lawful national security 
intelligence investigation, confidential 
information furnished only by the con-
fidential source; 
(v) Disclose investigative techniques 
and procedures, or 
(vi) Endanger the life or physical 
safety of law enforcement personnel; 
(8) Disclose information, the pre-
mature disclosure of which would be 
likely to significantly frustrate imple-
mentation of proposed Commission ac-
tion except where 
(i) The Commission has already pub-
licly disclosed the content or nature of 
its proposed action or 
(ii) The Commission is required by 
law to make such disclosure on its own 
initiative prior to taking final Com-
mission action on such proposal; 
(9) Specifically concern the Commis-
sion’s issuance of subpoena or partici-
pation in a civil action or proceeding; 
or 
(10) Specifically concern the initi-
ation, conduct, or disposition of a par-
ticular case of formal adjudication pur-
suant to the procedures in 5 U.S.C. 554, 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00436 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR427 
Department of Justice § 16.204 
1 Part 4a was removed at 44 FR 6890, Feb. 2, 
1979. 
or of any case involving a determina-
tion on the record after opportunity for 
a hearing. Included under the above 
terms are: 
(i) Record review hearings following 
opportunity for an in-person hearing 
pursuant to the procedures of 28 CFR 
4.1 through 4.17 and 28 CFR 4a.1 
through 4a.17
1 (governing applications 
for certificates of exemption under the 
Labor-Management Reporting and Dis-
closure Act of 1959 and the Employee 
Retirement Income Security Act of 
1974), and 
(ii) The initiation, conduct, or dis-
position by the Commission of any 
matter pursuant to the procedures of 28 
CFR 2.1 through 2.58 (parole, release, 
supervision, and recommitment of pris-
oners, youth offenders, and juvenile 
delinquents). 
(b) Public interest provision. Notwith-
standing the exemptions at paragraphs 
(a)(1) through (a)(10) of this section, 
the Commission may conduct a meet-
ing or portion of a meeting in public 
when the Commission determines, in 
its discretion, that the public interest 
in an open meeting clearly outweighs 
the need for confidentiality. 
(c) Nonpublic matter in announcements. 
The Commission may delete from any 
announcement or notice required in 
these regulations information the dis-
closure of which would be likely to 
have any of the consequences described 
in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(10) of 
this section, including the name of any 
individual considered by the Commis-
sion in any case of formal or informal 
adjudication. 
(d) Voting and certification. (1) A sepa-
rate recorded vote of the Commission 
shall be taken with respect to each 
meeting or portion thereof which is 
proposed to be closed, and with respect 
to any information which is proposed 
to be withheld pursuant to this section. 
Voting by proxy shall not be per-
mitted. In the alternative, the Com-
mission may, by a single majority 
vote, close to public observation a se-
ries of meetings, or portion(s) thereof 
or withhold information concerning 
such series of meetings, provided that: 
(i) Each meeting in such series in-
volves the same particular matters, 
and 
(ii) Each meeting is scheduled to be 
held no more than thirty days after the 
initial meeting in the series. 
(2) Upon the request of any Commis-
sioner, the Commission shall make a 
determination as to closure pursuant 
to this subsection if any person whose 
interests may be directly affected by a 
portion of a meeting requests the Com-
mission to close such portion or por-
tions to the public observation for any 
of the grounds specified in paragraph 
(a) (5), (6) or (7) of this section. 
(3) The determination to close any 
meeting to public observation pursuant 
to this section shall be made at least 
one week prior to the meeting or the 
first of a series of meetings as the case 
may be. If a majority of the Commis-
sioners determines by recorded vote 
that agency business requires the 
meeting to take place at any earlier 
date, the closure determination and an-
nouncement thereof shall be made at 
the earliest practicable time. Within 
one day of any vote taken on whether 
to close a meeting under this section, 
the Commission shall make available 
to the public a written record reflect-
ing the vote of each Commissioner on 
the question, including a full written 
explanation of its action in closing the 
meeting, portion(s) thereof, or series of 
meetings, together with a list of all 
persons expected to attend the meet-
ing(s) or portion(s) thereof and their af-
filiation, subject to the provisions of 
paragraph (c) of this section. 
(4) For every meeting or series of 
meetings closed pursuant to this sec-
tion, the General Counsel of the Parole 
Commission shall publicly certify that, 
in Counsel’s opinion, the meeting may 
be closed to the public and shall state 
each relevant exemptive provision. 
§ 16.204 Public notice. 
(a) Requirements. Every open meeting 
and meeting closed pursuant to § 16.203 
shall be preceded by a public announce-
ment posted before the main entrance 
to the Chairman’s Office at the Com-
mission’s headquarters, 5550 Friendship 
Boulevard, Chevy Chase, Maryland 
20815–7286, and, in the case of a meeting 
held elsewhere, in a prominent place at 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00437 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR428 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.205 
the location in which the meeting will 
be held. Such announcement shall be 
transmitted to the F
EDERAL REGISTER 
for publication and, in addition, may 
be issued through the Department of 
Justice, Office of Public Affairs, as a 
press release, or by such other means 
as the Commission shall deem reason-
able and appropriate. The announce-
ment shall furnish: 
(1) A brief description of the subject 
matter to be discussed; 
(2) The date, place, and approximate 
time of the meeting; 
(3) Whether the meeting will be open 
or closed to public observation; and 
(4) The name and telephone number 
of the official designated to respond to 
requests for information concerning 
the meeting. See § 16.205(d) for the no-
tice requirement applicable to meet-
ings closed pursuant to that section. 
(b) Time of notice. The announcement 
required by this section shall be re-
leased to the public at least one week 
prior to the meeting announced therein 
except where a majority of the mem-
bers of the Commission determines by 
a recorded vote that Commission busi-
ness requires earlier consideration. In 
the event of such a determination, the 
announcement shall be made at the 
earliest practicable time. 
(c) Amendments to notice. The time or 
place of a meeting may be changed fol-
lowing the announcement only if the 
Commission publicly announces such 
change at the earliest practicable time. 
The subject matter of a meeting, or de-
termination of the Commission to open 
or close a meeting, or portion of a 
meeting, to the public may be changed 
following the announcement only if: 
(1) A majority of the entire member-
ship of the Commission determines by 
a recorded vote that Commission busi-
ness so requires and that no earlier an-
nouncement of the change was pos-
sible, and 
(2) The Commission publicly an-
nounces such change and the vote of 
each member upon such change at the 
earliest practicable time: Provided, 
That individual items which have been 
announced for Commission consider-
ation at a closed meeting may be de-
leted without notice. 
[42 FR 14713, Mar. 16, 1977, as amended by 
Order No. 960–81, 46 FR 52357, Oct. 27, 1981] 
§ 16.205 Closed meetings—Informal 
procedures. 
(a) Finding. Based upon a review of 
the meetings of the U.S. Parole Com-
mission since the effective date of the 
Parole Commission and Reorganization 
Act (May 14, 1976), the regulations 
issued pursuant thereto (28 CFR part 2) 
the experience of the U.S. Board of Pa-
role, and the regulations pertaining to 
the Commission’s authority under 29 
U.S.C. 504 and 29 U.S.C. 1111 (28 CFR 
parts 4 and 4a), the Commission finds 
that the majority of its meetings may 
properly be closed to the public pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 552 (d)(4) and (c)(10). The 
major part of normal Commission busi-
ness lies in the adjudication of indi-
vidual parole cases, all of which pro-
ceedings commence with an initial pa-
role or revocation hearing and are de-
termined on the record thereof. 
Original jurisdiction cases are decided 
at bi-monthly meetings of the National 
Commissioners (28 CFR 2.17) and by the 
entire Commission in conjunction with 
each business meeting of the Commis-
sion (held at least quarterly) (28 CFR 
2.27). 
The National Appeals Board normally 
decides cases by sequential vote on a 
daily basis, but may meet from time to 
time for joint deliberations. In the pe-
riod from October, 1975 through Sep-
tember, 1976, the National Appeals 
Board made 2,072 Appellate decisions. 
Finally, over the last two years the 
Commission determined eleven cases 
under the Labor and Pension Acts, 
which are proceedings pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 554. The only meetings of the 
Commission not of an adjudicative na-
ture involving the most sensitive in-
quiry into the personal background and 
behavior of the individual concerned, 
or involving sensitive financial infor-
mation concerning the parties before 
the Commission, are the normal busi-
ness meetings of the Commission, 
which are held at least quarterly. 
(b) Meetings to which applicable. The 
following types of meetings may be 
closed in the event that a majority of 
the Commissioners present at the 
meeting, and authorized to act on be-
half of the Commission, votes by re-
corded vote at the beginning of each 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00438 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR429 
Department of Justice § 16.207 
1 Part 4a was removed at 44 FR 6890, Feb. 2, 
1979. 
meeting or portion thereof, to close the 
meeting or portions thereof: 
(1) Original jurisdiction initial and 
appellate case deliberations conducted 
pursuant to 28 CFR 2.17 and 2.27; 
(2) National Appeals Board delibera-
tions pursuant to 28 CFR 2.26; 
(3) Meetings of the Commission to 
conduct a hearing on the record regard-
ing applications for certificates of ex-
emption pursuant to the Labor-Man-
agement Reporting and Disclosure Act 
of 1959, 29 U.S.C. 504, and the Employee 
Retirement Income Security Act of 
1974, 29 U.S.C. 1111 (28 CFR 4.1–17 and 29 
CFR 4a.1–17).
1 
(c) Written record of action to close 
meeting. In the case of a meeting or 
portion of a meeting closed pursuant to 
this section, the Commission shall 
make available to the public as soon as 
practicable: 
(1) A written record reflecting the 
vote of each member of the Commis-
sion to close the meeting; and 
(2) A certification by the Commis-
sion’s General Counsel to the effect 
that in Counsel’s opinion, the meeting 
may be closed to the public, which cer-
tification shall state each relevant ex-
emptive provision. 
(d) Public notice. In the case of meet-
ings closed pursuant to this section the 
Commission shall make a public an-
nouncement of the subject matter to be 
considered, and the date, place, and 
time of the meeting. The announce-
ment described herein shall be released 
to the public at the earliest practicable 
time. 
§ 16.206 Transcripts, minutes, and mis-
cellaneous documents concerning 
Commission meetings. 
(a) In the case of any Commission 
meeting, whether open or closed, the 
Commission shall maintain and make 
available for public inspection a record 
of the final vote of each member on 
rules, statements of policy, and inter-
pretations adopted by it: 18 U.S.C. 
4203(d). 
(b) The Commission shall maintain a 
complete transcript or electronic re-
cording adequate to record fully the 
proceedings of each meeting, or portion 
of a meeting, closed to the public pur-
suant to § 16.203. In the case of a meet-
ing, or portion of a meeting, closed to 
the public pursuant to § 16.205 of these 
regulations, the Commission may 
maintain either the transcript or re-
cording described above, or a set of 
minutes unless a recording is required 
by title 18 U.S.C. 4208(f). The minutes 
required by this section shall fully and 
clearly describe all matters discussed 
and shall provide a full and accurate 
summary of any actions taken, and the 
reasons therefor, including a descrip-
tion of each of the views expressed on 
any item and the record of any rollcall 
vote (reflecting the vote of each Com-
missioner on the question). All docu-
ments considered in connection with 
any action shall be identified in such 
minutes. 
(c) The Commission shall retain a 
copy of every certification executed by 
the General Counsel’s Office pursuant 
to these regulations, together with a 
statement from the presiding officer of 
the meeting, or portion of a meeting to 
which the certification applies, setting 
forth the time and place of the meet-
ing, and the persons present. 
(d) Nothing herein shall affect any 
other provision in Commission proce-
dures or regulations requiring the prep-
aration and maintenance of a record of 
all official actions of the Commission. 
§ 16.207 Public access to nonexempt 
transcripts and minutes of closed 
Commission meetings—Documents 
used at meetings—Record reten-
tion. 
(a) Public access to records. Within a 
reasonable time after any closed meet-
ing, the Commission shall make avail-
able to the public, in the Commission’s 
Public Reading Room located at 5550 
Friendship Boulevard, Chevy Chase, 
Maryland 20815–7286, the transcript, 
electronic recording, or minutes of the 
discussion of any item on the agenda, 
or of any item of the testimony of any 
witness received at such meeting, 
maintained hereunder, except for such 
item or items of such discussion or tes-
timony which contain information ex-
empt under any provision of the Gov-
ernment in the Sunshine Act (Pub. L. 
94–409), or of any amendment thereto. 
Copies of nonexempt transcripts, or 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00439 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR430 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) § 16.208 
minutes, or a transcription of such re-
cording disclosing the identity of each 
speaker, shall be furnished to any per-
son at the actual cost of duplication or 
transcription. 
(b) Access to documents identified or 
discussed in any Commission meeting, 
open or closed, shall be governed by 
Department of Justice regulations at 
this part 16, subparts C and D. The 
Commission reserves the right to in-
voke statutory exemptions to disclo-
sure of such documents under 5 U.S.C. 
552 and 552a, and applicable regula-
tions. The exemptions provided in 5 
U.S.C. 552b(c) shall apply to any re-
quest made pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552 or 
552a to copy and inspect any tran-
scripts, recordings or minutes prepared 
or maintained pursuant hereto. 
(c) Retention of records. The Commis-
sion shall maintain a complete ver-
batim copy of the transcript, or a com-
plete copy of the minutes, or a com-
plete electronic recording of each 
meeting, or portion of a meeting, 
closed to the public, for a period of at 
least two years after such meeting, or 
until one year after the conclusion of 
any Commission proceeding with re-
spect to which the meeting or portion 
thereof was held, whichever occurs 
later. 
[42 FR 14713, Mar. 16, 1977, as amended by 
Order No. 960–81, 46 FR 52357, Oct. 27, 1981] 
§ 16.208 Annual report. 
The Commission shall report annu-
ally to Congress regarding its compli-
ance with Sunshine Act requirements, 
including a tabulation of the total 
number of meetings open to the public, 
the total number of meetings closed to 
the public, the reasons for closing such 
meetings, and a description of any liti-
gation brought against the Commission 
under this section, including any costs 
assessed against the Commission in 
such litigation and whether or not 
paid. 
Subpart G—Access to Documents 
by Former Employees of the 
Department 
SOURCE: Order No. 2333–2000, 65 FR 68892, 
Nov. 15, 2000, unless otherwise noted. 
§ 16.300 Access to documents for the 
purpose of responding to an official 
inquiry. 
(a) To the extent permitted by law, 
former employees of the Department 
shall be given access to documents that 
they originated, reviewed, or signed 
while employees of the Department, for 
the purpose of responding to an official 
inquiry by a federal, state, or local 
government entity or professional li-
censing authority. Documents include 
memoranda, drafts, reports, notes, 
written communications, and docu-
ments stored electronically that are in 
the possession of the Department. Ac-
cess ordinarily will be provided on gov-
ernment premises. 
(b) Requests for access to documents 
under this section must be submitted 
in writing to the head of the compo-
nent where the employee worked when 
originating, reviewing, or signing the 
documents. If the employee requesting 
access was the Attorney General, Dep-
uty Attorney General, or Associate At-
torney General, the request may be 
granted by the Assistant Attorney 
General for Administration. This au-
thority may not be delegated below the 
level of principal deputy component 
head. 
(c) The written request should de-
scribe with specificity the documents 
to which access is sought (including 
time periods wherever possible), the 
reason for which access is sought (in-
cluding the timing of the official in-
quiry involved), and any intended dis-
closure of any of the information con-
tained in the documents. 
(d) The requester must agree in writ-
ing to safeguard the information from 
unauthorized disclosure and not to fur-
ther disclose the information, by any 
means of communication, or to make 
copies, without the permission of the 
Department. Determinations regarding 
any further disclosure of information 
or removal of copies shall be made in 
accordance with applicable standards 
and procedures. 
§ 16.301 Limitations. 
(a) The Department may deny or 
limit access under this subpart where 
providing the requested access would 
be unduly burdensome. 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00440 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR431 
Department of Justice Pt. 16, App. I 
(b) Access under this subpart to clas-
sified information is governed by Exec-
utive Order 12958 and 28 CFR 17.46. Re-
quests for access to classified informa-
tion must be submitted to (or will be 
referred to) the Department Security 
Officer and may be granted by the De-
partment Security Officer in consulta-
tion with the appropriate component 
head. 
(c) Nothing in this subpart shall be 
construed to supplant the operation of 
other applicable prohibitions against 
disclosure. 
(d) This subpart is not intended to, 
does not, and may not be relied upon 
to, create any right or benefit, sub-
stantive or procedural, enforcecable at 
law by a party against the United 
States. 
A
PPENDIX I TO PART 16—C OMPONENTS OF 
THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE 
Please consult Attachment B of the De-
partment of Justice FOIA Reference Guide 
for the contact information and a detailed 
description of the types of records main-
tained by each Department component. The 
FOIA Reference Guide is available at https:// 
www.justice.gov/oip/department-justice-freedom-
information-act-reference-guide or upon re-
quest to the Office of Information Policy 
(OIP). 
The Department component offices, and 
any component-specific requirements, for 
making a FOIA or Privacy Act request are 
listed in this appendix. The Certification of 
Identity form, available at https:// 
www.justice.gov/oip/doj-reference-guide-attach-
ment-d-copies-forms, may be used by individ-
uals who are making requests for records 
pertaining to themselves. For each of the six 
components marked with an asterisk, FOIA 
and Privacy Act requests for access must be 
sent to OIP, which handles initial requests 
for those six components. 
Antitrust Division, FOIA/PA Unit 
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and 
Explosives, Disclosure Division 
Civil Division, FOIA/PA Officer 
Requests for records from case files must 
include a case caption or name, civil 
court case number, and judicial district. 
Civil Rights Division, FOIA/PA Branch 
Community Relations Service, FOIA/PA Co-
ordinator 
Criminal Division, FOIA/PA Unit 
Drug Enforcement Administration, Freedom 
of Information Operations Unit, FOI/ 
Records Management Section 
Environment and Natural Resources Divi-
sion, FOIA Coordinator, Law and Policy 
Section 
Requests for records from case files must 
include a case caption or name, civil or 
criminal court case number, and judicial 
district. 
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Of-
fice of the General Counsel 
When seeking access to records concerning 
a named alien individual, requesters 
must include an alien registration num-
ber (‘‘A’’ number). If the ‘‘A’’ number is 
not known or the case occurred before 
1988, the date of an Order to Show Cause, 
country of origin, and location of the im-
migration hearing must be provided. 
Executive Office for United States Attor-
neys, FOIA/Privacy Unit 
Executive Office for Organized Crime Drug 
Enforcement Task Forces 
Requests for records from case files must 
include the judicial district in which the 
investigation/prosecution or other litiga-
tion occurred. 
Executive Office for United States Trustees, 
FOIA/PA Counsel, Office of the General 
Counsel 
Requests for records from bankruptcy case 
files must include a case caption or 
name, case number, and judicial district. 
Federal Bureau of Investigation, Record/In-
formation Dissemination Section, Records 
Management Division 
Federal Bureau of Prisons, FOIA/PA Section 
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission 
INTERPOL–U.S. National Central Bureau, 
FOIA/PA Specialist, Office of General 
Counsel 
Justice Management Division, FOIA Contact 
National Security Division, FOIA Initiatives 
Coordinator 
Office of the Associate Attorney General* 
Office of the Attorney General* 
Office of Community Oriented Policing Serv-
ices, FOIA Officer, Legal Division 
Office of the Deputy Attorney General* 
Office of Information Policy 
Office of the Inspector General, Office of the 
General Counsel 
Office of Justice Programs, Office of the 
General Counsel 
Office of Legal Counsel 
Office of Legal Policy* 
Office of Legislative Affairs* 
Office of the Pardon Attorney, FOIA Officer 
Office of Professional Responsibility, Special 
Counsel for Freedom of Information and 
Privacy Acts 
Office of Public Affairs* 
Office of the Solicitor General 
Requests for records from case files must 
include a case name, docket number, or 
citation to case. 
Office on Violence Against Women 
Professional Responsibility Advisory Office, 
Information Management Specialist 
Tax Division, Division Counsel for FOIA and 
PA Matters 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00441 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR432 
28 CFR Ch. I (7–1–25 Edition) Pt. 17 
Requests for records from case files must 
include a case caption or name, civil or 
criminal court case number, and judicial 
district. 
United States Marshals Service, Office of the 
General Counsel 
Requests for records concerning seized 
property must specify the judicial dis-
trict of the seizure, civil court case num-
ber, asset identification number, and an 
accurate description of the property. 
United States Parole Commission, FOIA/PA 
Specialist 
[AG Order No. 3517–2015, 80 FR 18113, Apr. 3, 
2015, as amended by AG Order No. 5851–2024, 
89 FR 1450, Jan. 10, 2024] 
PART 17—CLASSIFIED NATIONAL 
SECURITY INFORMATION AND 
ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED INFOR-
MATION 
Sec. 
17.1 Purpose. 
17.2 Scope. 
17.3 Definitions. 
Subpart A—Administration 
17.11 Authority of the Assistant Attorney 
General for Administration. 
17.12 Component head responsibilities. 
17.13 National Security Division; interpre-
tation of Executive Orders. 
17.14 Department Review Committee. 
17.15 Access Review Committee. 
17.16 Violations of classified information re-
quirements. 
17.17 Judicial proceedings. 
17.18 Prepublication review. 
Subpart B—Classified Information 
17.21 Classification and declassification au-
thority. 
17.22 Classification of information; limita-
tions. 
17.23 Emergency classification requests. 
17.24 Duration of classification. 
17.25 Identification and markings. 
17.26 Derivative classification. 
17.27 Declassification and downgrading. 
17.28 Automatic declassification. 
17.29 Documents of permanent historical 
value. 
17.30 Classification challenges. 
17.31 Mandatory review for declassification 
requests. 
17.32 Notification of classification changes. 
Subpart C—Access to Classified 
Information 
17.41 Access to classified information. 
17.42 Positions requiring financial disclo-
sure. 
17.43 Reinvestigation requirements. 
17.44 Access eligibility. 
17.45 Need-to-know. 
17.46 Access by persons outside the Execu-
tive Branch. 
17.47 Denial or revocation of eligibility for 
access to classified information. 
A
UTHORITY: 28 U.S.C. 501, 509, 510, 515–519; 5 
U.S.C. 301; E.O. 12958, 60 FR 19825, 3 CFR, 1995 
Comp., p. 333; E.O. 12968, 60 FR 40245, 3 CFR, 
1995 Comp., p. 391; 32 CFR part 2001. 
S
OURCE: Order No. 2091–97, 62 FR 36984, July 
10, 1997, unless otherwise noted. 
§ 17.1 Purpose. 
The purpose of this part is to ensure 
that information within the Depart-
ment of Justice (the ‘‘Department’’) re-
lating to the national security is clas-
sified, protected, and declassified pur-
suant to the provisions of Executive 
Orders 12958 (3 CFR, 1995 Comp., p. 333) 
and 12968 (3 CFR, 1995 Comp., p. 391) and 
implementing directives from the In-
formation Security Oversight Office of 
the National Archives and Records Ad-
ministration (‘‘ISOO’’). Executive Or-
ders 12958 and 12968 made numerous 
substantive changes in the system of 
classification, declassification, and 
downgrading of classified National Se-
curity Information and the criteria for 
access to this information. Accord-
ingly, this part is a revision of the De-
partment’s classified information secu-
rity rules. 
(a) Subpart A of this part prescribes 
the implementation of Executive Or-
ders 12958 and 12968 within the Depart-
ment through the Assistant Attorney 
General for Administration, as the sen-
ior responsible agency official. Subpart 
A of this part also provides for certain 
relationships within the Department 
between the Assistant Attorney Gen-
eral for Administration, other compo-
nent heads, and the National Security 
Division. 
(b) Subpart B of this part prescribes 
an orderly and progressive system for 
ensuring that every necessary safe-
guard and procedure is in place to as-
sure that information is properly clas-
sified and that classified information is 
protected from unauthorized disclo-
sure. Subpart B of this part requires 
original classification authorities to 
make classification decisions based on 
specific criteria; provides that most 
newly created classified information be 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:27 Feb 19, 2026 Jkt 265117 PO 00000 Frm 00442 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265117.XXX 265117skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR