Fiscal impact reports (FIRs) are prepared by the Legislative Finance Committee (LFC)  for standing finance 
committees of the Legislature. LFC does not assume respon sibility for the accuracy of these reports  if they 
are used for other purposes. 
 
F I S C A L    I M P A C T    R E P O R T 
 
BILL NUMBER: House Resolution 1  
SHORT TITLE: House Investigatory Subcommittee 
SPONSOR: Romero/Anaya/Reeb 
LAST 
UPDATE: 
 
1/30/26 
ORIGINAL 
DATE:  
 
1/29/26 
 
ANALYST: Gygi 
  
  
  
ESTIMATED ADDITIONAL OPERATING BUDGET IMPACT* 
(dollars in thousands) 
Agency/Program FY26 FY27 FY28 3 Year 
Total Cost 
Recurring or 
Nonrecurring 
Fund 
Affected 
NMAG No fiscal impact No fiscal impact No fiscal impact No fiscal 
impact   
SEC No fiscal impact No fiscal impact No fiscal impact No fiscal 
impact   
LCS See "Fiscal 
Implications" Up to $100.0 No fiscal impact Up to $100.0  General Fund 
Parentheses ( ) indicate expenditure decreases. 
*Amounts reflect most recent analysis of this legislation. 
 
Sources of Information 
 
LFC Files 
 
Agency or Agencies Providing Analysis 
Attorney General 
State Ethics Commission 
 
SUMMARY 
 
Synopsis of House Resolution 1   
 
House Resolution 1 (HR1) would authorize the speaker of the House to appoint a special 
committee of the House of R epresentatives to investigate allegations of criminal activity  and 
public corruption at the former Zorro ranch  in Santa Fe County. The committee would continue 
after the legislative session adjourns on February 19, 2026, but not longer than December 31, 
2026.  
 
The subcommittee would: 
1) Determine whether local or state officers failed to investigate  the allegations even though 
they were informed of potential criminal activity at the ranch by legislators and others; 
2) Determine whether legislation or other legislative action is needed to: 
• To prevent and properly punish crime,  
• Protect children and other vulnerable people, 
• Establish sufficient procedures for securing civil justice, House Resolution 1 – Page 2 
 
• Ensure proper use and stewardship of public money and resources, and  
• Provide for public accountability. 
3) Keep records and furnish an interim report to the leadership of the House  on or before July 
31, 2026, and furnish a final report to all members of the H ouse of R epresentatives on or 
before December 31, 2026. 
 
The bipartisan committee would be composed of two members from the majority party and two 
members from the minority party; the speaker would designate a chair from the appointed 
members. HR1 would empower the committee to conduct hearings, compel attendance of 
witnesses, administer oaths, and issue subpoenas. 
 
FISCAL IMPLICATIONS  
 
HR1 does not include a n appropriation. The bill specifies that the chief clerk of the H ouse of 
Representatives will provide staff for the committee when the Legislature is in session ; 
afterwards staffing would be requested from the Legislative Council Service , subject to the 
availability of funding. The committee is authorized to retain additional staff, including legal 
counsel, which may require additional funds. This FIR assumes  a cost of up to $100 thousand 
dollars to convene the committee  after the  2026 regular  session ends , including legislator per 
diem and travel and contractor support, if needed. 
 
SIGNIFICANT ISSUES 
 
Zorro ranch was the name of a private estate in Santa Fe County owned by Jeffrey Epstein, now 
deceased. The ranch , sold in 2023, consist ed of approximately 10,000 acres of real property, 
which included public land leaseholds. Epstein, a convicted sex offender under Florida law, was 
not required to register as a sex offender under New Mexico law.
1 The New Mexico Attorney 
General began an investigation into allegations of criminal activity , including sex and human  
trafficking, in 2019. The investigations also included financial businesses owned and utilized by 
Epstein. The Attorney General eventually handed over the investigation to the FBI.2 
 
HR1 creates a temporary interim committee that would serve as a “t ruth-saying commission;” 
allowing alleged victims and others to testify. The committee could potentially compensate 
victims with funds seized from Epstein’s bank accounts. The committee would examine whether 
New Mexico ’s statute of limitations for child hood sexual assault survivors  is too short and 
whether there are gaps in the state’s registry laws for sexual offenders. 
 
The State Ethics Commission states  its work would not directly intersect with the committee 
proposed in House Resolution 1 but “might involve overlapping areas of concern.”  This would 
be violations of one of the 10 laws listed in the State Ethics Commission Act. 
 
OTHER SUBSTANTIVE ISSUES 
 
The Attorney General  (NMAG) confirms the Legislature has the general power to investigate 
 
1 Reported by KOAT, KQRE and other television stations on Sept. 30, 2025 and the Santa Fe New Mexican on Dec. 
19, 2025. 
2 Redacted report available at US Department of Justice website. House Resolution 1 – Page 3 
 
matters of public importance . However, the state Constitution prohibits the body from passing a 
bill of attainder or of depriving parties the due process of law . “Accordingly, the contemplated 
committee would have to take care when investigating whether identifiable individuals 
committed crimes or stating that identifiable individuals committed crimes.” 
 
KG/sgs/hg/sgs/dw/ct             