SURVIVOR’S TRUTH
COMMISSION
N E W  M E X I C O  H O U S E  O F  R E P R E S E N T A T I V E S
NMTruthCommission.comNM’S SURVIVOR’S TRUTH
COMMISSION
Jeffrey Epstein operated an international crime operation for decades.
One of his primary United States properties — Zorro Ranch in New
Mexico — was a hub of that operation.
1993
First documented NM connection. Victims were trafficked to and from
New Mexico. Institutional failures led to crimes that were never
investigated or prosecuted in NM
2008
Florida conviction and Federal non-prosecution agreement shielded
enablers
2019
Federal arrest and death of Jeffrey Epstein
2022 
NM settles with Epstein’s banks
Present Time
Survivors have never had a formal, public record of what happened
Looking to NM laws and institutions that must change in order to
bring justice to survivors and to prevent these crimes in the future
Photo: Joshua Bowling/Source NMGOVERNING
PRINCIPLES
Victims will have an
unfettered, formally recorded
opportunity to tell their full
stories in a manner of their
choosing- if they choose to do
so. This Commission's work
belongs, first, to them.
Justice & Rule of Law
Truth Before Reconciliation
“Crimes of this magnitude are
offenses against the community
and against the rule of law — not
merely against individual victims.
The body politic itself requires
repair.”
Premature calls for forgiveness,
without full accounting of facts,
compound the harm done to
survivors. We will not rush to
resolution at the expense of
truth.
Survivor CenteredJURISDICTIONAL SCOPE
Zorro Ranch, New Mexico
All surrounding jurisdictions, agencies, counties and
government officials and actors in New Mexico. Anyone who
was in our state, or affected our state. 
Primary Jurisdiction
Palm Beach / West Palm Beach, FL • New York, New York
• U.S. Virgin Islands (Little Saint James) • International
trafficking networks & flight logs
Where crimes were enabled or designated elsewhere, we
document what should have been charged — and transmit
that record to the relevant authorities. We will recognize
charges that should have been brought, organized by
jurisdiction. 
Cross-Jurisdiction & InternationalCATEGORIES OF INVESTIGATION
Sexual Abuse,
Trafficking & Other
Offenses
Institutional FailuresFinancial Crimes Motive & Power Networks
Recruitment under
false pretenses
Abuse at Zorro Ranch
Interstate &
international trafficking
Grooming networks
Medical & Scientific
Crimes
Release of NM settlement
and request for other
settlements
Sources & opacity of
Epstein's wealth
Post-death estate
management
Leverage for silence &
access
Sex offender registry laws
State land lease abuse
Document retention
issues
Federal 2008 NPA impact
Possibilities for victim
damage recovery
Psychological profile
of abuse
Alleged intelligence
alliances
Role of blackmail &
kompromat
Operational timelineCase Study 01
SURVIVOR CENTERED
All testimony provided to the Truth Commision will be: 
Voluntary - No survivor is compelled to testify
Uninterrupted - Full narrative without cross-examination
Trauma-Informed - Trained facilitators present at all sessions
Protected - Testify publicly, on camera, or in writing
Official Record - Formally transcribed & entered into Commission
record
The Truth Commission is Dedicated to Protecting Survivors
New Mexico’s statewide Sexual Assault Helpline is available as a 24/7, confidential resource. Call or
text 1-844-667-2457, and an online chat function can be found at www.nmsahelp.org.
NMTruthCommission.comOTHER INVESTIGATIONS
& MISSION OBJECTIVES
New Mexico Department of Justice
U.S. Congress - House Oversight
Committee 
Collaboration with the criminal
investigation into the Epstein enterprises
for crimes that can be charged in New
Mexico today.
Working to get to know survivors and
following the information for questioning
that can be obtained from the interviews
conducted and any other releases of
information valuable to the Truth
Commission. 
New Mexico’s Laws & Future Policy
Changes
The Truth Commission is
independent and dedicated to
looking to the laws of New Mexico
that will need to be changed to
bring justice to survivors, and to
protect the future of New Mexico’s
rule of law and access to justice. Source Development &
Evidentiary Review
Findings & Public
ReportingSite & Physical Evidence
COMMISSION PROCESS
Physical search of ZorroRanchIssuing of subpoenas to allknown perpetrators andinstitutions for information Property records & estatereview and preserve at-riskevidence and testimony
Justice, Healing & Reform
Review tips & attorneys forvictims -nmtruthcommission.comSecure law enforcement &AG filesInterviewing witness listAI-assisted documentreview
Name abusers, enablers,and co-conspiratorsFormal prosecutorialreferralsLegislative reformrecommendationsPublic survivor record
Legal & Prosecutorial Aims - Criminal prosecution referrals to NM, FL, NY, USVI, international jurisdictions for
civil damage claims against the Epstein estate and charging framework for uncharged conduct by jurisdiction.
Survivor Support & Community Response - Counseling, legal advocacy and financial assistance, inclusive of
resources for domestic violence, sexual violence, trafficking. 
Institutional Reforms - Sex offender registry reform; statute of limitations reform — childhood sexual abuse;
screening for state land leasing by registered offenders; law enforcement: mandatory survivor-crediting
protocols; and Jurisdictional management – preemption issues
Public Accountability - Naming public officials involved — abusers, enablers, obstructors; transmit findings to
international bodies; full public report, redacted only for prosecution or survivor safetySUBPOENA ISSUANCE
Estate of Jeffrey Epstein
U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation
U.S. Department of Justice
U.S. Attorney’s Office, District of NM
U.S. Attorney’s Office, Southern District of NY
Federal Aviation Administration
Deutsche Bank
JP Morgan Chase & Co
New Mexico Department of Public Safety
New Mexico Department of Justice (formerly office of the
Attorney General of the State of New Mexico)
Office of the Governor of New Mexico
New Mexico State Land Commissioner
Santa Fe County Sheriff’s Department
Santa Fe Institute
Our first round of subpoenas are as follows: WE PROCEED IN THE NAME OF THE LAW, IN
THE NAME OF THE SURVIVORS, AND IN THE
NAME OF THE TRUTH.
Our aim is to repair of a body politic that was violated — in New Mexico, in this
country, and around the world — by one man's predation and by the silence,
complicity, and cowardice of many other individuals and institutions.